0:00:00
Welcome back, everybody. So how do you like it so far? There's a lot of new terms. So things that you have never heard before or don't understand, just take it in. But this is where we're going to go into a really intense part. So you have to be focused, you have to be awake and aware. You might not understand everything, but really, like Kamala said, take this as a meditation. Sit up straight, fill your mind, and let your mind go through this. And these are the structures of the bardos, the intermediate states. And through understanding these things, you understand death after death. You also understand life. So it gets quite technical. This is why we learn computer programming, to have the mind to be able to hold these

0:01:07
structures.

0:01:08
All right, so this one is just the last part today, but really, really, really, like, take this as a meditation. Sit up straight and do well. Okay, I'll hand you

0:01:26
over to Kamala.

0:01:29
Hello again, everyone. All right, so we just listened to the introduction and the bit about the first and second part of, and now we're going to listen to the section that's about the third bardo, which is, as Simvara just mentioned, very intense. So being alert and open and attentive is the way to be. And also, I'd like to mention that when a sangha brother or sister dies, they open the dimension to these teachings for us. And this is a really profound opportunity. So we can all feel a gratitude to Soong for giving us this opportunity to learn these really profound teachings. So in the third bardo, it's also called the bardo of the peaceful and wrathful deities. And you're basically experiencing and facing every energy in the universe in a really primal

0:02:36
way.

0:02:37
And so in the passage of the book we're going to listen to, you'll hear a lot of symbolism and imagery that is very Tibetan in nature, because that's the origin of these teachings is Tibetan Buddhism. So a lot of it might seem odd or confusing to an American or European mind, but that's okay. What these symbols and the imagery is all pointing to are really primal energies that are beyond any particular culture. So at this point in the Bardo experience, you're not ghosting about anymore. You don't even have a personality or personal history. You're the essence of yourself at this point, going through this experience. And the structure that's underlying all of this complex imagery that we'll hear about is the five Buddha family that we started learning about yesterday. And as you learned, each family has both an encumbered and a liberated energy. And as well as that, it has both peaceful and wrathful Buddhas and tons of other beings who are emanations of these energies. So we're going to hear all about it now. This playlist is longer and more intense, so again, reminders to stay listen, be open, and attentive. Thank you. Oh, and also on my screen this time I'm going to share a different image, not the same one that you saw yesterday, that's the depiction of the peaceful and wrathful deities. So it'll give you a little bit of a visual to go along with what you're hearing.

0:04:41
In this way he is liberated by recognizing the luminosity during the second bardo, even if he did not recognize the basic luminosity. But if he is not liberated by it, then what is called the third bardo, the bardo of dharmata,

0:04:57
arises.

0:04:58
The confused projections of karma will appear in the third bardo, so it is most important that the great showing of the bardo of dharmata is read at this time, for it is very powerful and helpful. At this time his relatives are crying and weeping, his share of food is stopped, his clothes are removed, his bed is taken to pieces, and so on. He can see them, but they cannot see him. And he can hear them calling him, but they cannot hear him calling them, so he goes away in despair. Three phenomena will appear at this time—sounds, colored lights, and rays of light, and he will grow faint with fear, terror and bewilderment. So at this moment the great showing of the Bardo of Dhammata should be read. Calling the dead person by name, one should say these words very distinctly. O child of noble family, listen carefully without distraction. There are six bardo states, the bardo of birth, the bardo of dreams, the bardo of samadhi meditation, the bardo of the moment before death, the bardo of dharmata, and the bardo of becoming. O child of noble family, you will experience three bardo states, the bardo of the moment before death, the bardo of dharmata, and the bardo of becoming. Of these three, the luminosity of dharmata in the bardo of the moment before death shone until yesterday, but you did not recognize it, and so you had to wander here. Now you will experience the bardo of dharmata and the bardo of becoming. So recognize what I will show you without distraction. O child of noble family, now what is called death has arrived. You are not alone in leaving this world. It happens to everyone. So do not feel desire and yearning for this life. Even if you feel desire and yearning, you cannot stay. You can only wander in samsara. Do not desire, do not yearn. Remember the three jewels. O child of noble family, whatever terrifying projections appear in the Bhārata of Dharmatā, do not forget these words, but go forward remembering their meaning. The essential point is to recognize with them. Now when the bardo of dharmata dawns upon me, I will abandon all thoughts of fear and terror. I will recognize whatever appears as my projection and know it to be a vision of the bardo. Now that I have reached this crucial point, I will not fear the peaceful and wrathful ones, my own projections." Go forward saying these words clearly and distinctly and remembering their meaning. Do not forget them, for the essential point is to recognize with certainty that whatever appears, however terrifying, is your own projection. O child of noble family, when your body and mind separate, the dharmata will appear, pure and clear, yet hard to discern, luminous and brilliant, with terrifying brightness, shimmering like a mirage on a plain in spring. Do not be afraid of it. A great roar of thunder will come from within the light, the natural sound of dharmata, like a thousand thunderclaps simultaneously. This is the natural sound of your dharmata, so do not be afraid or bewildered. You have what is called a mental body of unconscious tendencies. You have no physical body of flesh and blood, so whatever sounds, colors, and rays of light occur, they cannot hurt you, and you cannot die. It is enough simply to recognize them as your projections. Know this to be the bardo state. O child of noble family, if you do not recognize them in this way as your own projections, whatever meditation practice you have done during your life, if you have not met with this teaching, the colored lights will frighten you, the sounds will bewilder you, and the rays of light will terrify you. If you do not understand this essential point of the teaching, you will not recognize the sounds, lights, and rays, and so you will wander in samsara. O child of noble family, after being unconscious for four and a half days, you will move on, and awakening from your faint, you will wonder what has happened to you, so recognize it as the bardo state. At that time, samsara is reversed, and everything you see appears as lights and images. The whole of space will shine with a blue light, and blessed Vairocana will appear before you from the central realm, all-pervading circle. His body is white in color, he sits on a lion throne, holding an eight-spoked wheel in his hand and embracing his consort, the Queen of Vajraspace. The blue light of the skanda of consciousness in its basic purity, the wisdom of the Dharmadhatu, luminous, clear, sharp and brilliant, will come towards you from the heart of Vairocana and his consort and pierce you so that your eyes cannot bear it. At the same time, together with it, the soft white light of the gods will also come towards you and pierce you. At that time, under the influence of bad karma, you will be terrified and escape from the wisdom of the Dharmadhatu with its bright blue light, but you will feel an emotion of pleasure towards the soft white light of the gods. At that moment, do not be frightened and bewildered by the luminous, brilliant, very sharp and clear blue light of supreme wisdom, for it is the light ray of the Buddha, which is called the wisdom of the Dharmadhatu. Be drawn to it with faith and devotion and supplicate it, thinking, It is the light ray of blessed Vairocana's compassion. I take refuge in it. It is blessed Vairocana coming to invite you to the dangerous pathway of the Bardo. It is the light ray of Virochana's compassion. Do not take pleasure in the soft white light of the gods. Do not be attracted to it or yearn for it. If you are attracted to it, you will wander in the realm of the gods and circle among the six kinds of existence. It is an obstacle blocking the path of liberation, so do not look at it, but feel longing for the bright blue light and repeat this inspiration prayer after me with intense concentration on blessed Vairocana. When through intense ignorance I wander in samsara, on the luminous light path of the Dharmadhatu wisdom, may blessed Vairocana go before me, His consort the Queen of Vajraspace behind me. Help me to cross the Bardo's dangerous pathway and bring me to the perfect Buddha state." By saying this inspiration prayer with deep devotion, he will dissolve into rainbow light in the heart of Blessed Vairocana and his consort and become a Sambhogakaya Buddha in the central realm, the densely arrayed. But if, even after being shown, he is afraid of the lights and the rays because of his aggression and veils of error, and he escapes, and if he is confused even after saying the prayer, then on the second day, Vajrasattva's circle of deities will come to invite him, together with his bad karma, which leads to hell. So to show him, one should call the dead person by name and say these words, O child of noble family, listen without distraction. On the second day, a white light, the purified element of water, will shine, and at the same time the blessed Vajrasattva Akshobhya will appear before you from the eastern realm of complete joy. His body is blue in color. He holds a five-pointed vajra in his hand and sits on an elephant throne embracing his consort, Buddha Locana. He is accompanied by the two male bodhisattvas, Kṣitigarbha and Maitreya, and the two female bodhisattvas, Lāsya and Puṣpa, so that six Buddhas' forms appear. The white light of the skanda of form in its basic purity, the mirror-like wisdom, dazzling white, luminous and clear, will come towards you from the heart of Vajrasattva and his consort and pierce you so that your eyes cannot bear to look at it. At the same time, together with the wisdom light, the soft smoky light of hell beings will also come towards you and pierce you. At that time, under the influence of aggression, you will be terrified and escape from the brilliant white light, but you will feel an emotion of pleasure towards the soft smoky light of the hell beings. At that moment, do not be afraid of the sharp, brilliant, luminous and clear white light, but recognize it as wisdom. Be drawn to it with faith and longing, and supplicate it, thinking, "'It is the light ray of blessed Vajrasattva's compassion. I take refuge in it. It is blessed Vajrasattva coming to invite you to the terrors of the Bardo. It is the light ray hook of Vajrasattva's compassion, so feel longing for it. Do not take pleasure in the soft, smoky light of the hell beings. This is the inviting path of the veils of error accumulated by your violent aggression. If you are attracted to it, you will fall down into hell and sink into the muddy swamp of unbearable suffering from which there is never any escape. It is an obstacle blocking the path of liberation, so do not look at it, but give up aggression. Do not be attracted to it, do not yearn for it. Feel longing for the luminous, brilliant white light and say this inspiration prayer with intense concentration on blessed Vajrasattva. When through intense aggression I wander in samsara, on the luminous light path of the mirror-like wisdom, may blessed Vajrasattva go before me, His concert, Buddha-locana, behind me. Help me to cross the Bardo's dangerous pathway and bring me to the perfect Buddha state." By saying this inspiration prayer with deep devotion, he will dissolve into rainbow light in the heart of blessed Vajrasattva and become a Sambhogakaya Buddha in the eastern realm of complete joy. Yet even after being shown in this way, some people are afraid of the light-ray hook of compassion because of their pride and veils of error, and they escape. So then on the third day, blessed Ratnasambhava's circle of deities will come to invite them, together with the light path to the human realm. So to show him again, one should call the dead person by name and say these words, O child of noble family, listen without distraction. On the third day, a yellow light, the purified element of earth, will shine, and at the same time blessed Ratnasambhava will appear before you from the yellow southern realm, the glorious. His body is yellow in color. He holds a wish-fulfilling jewel in His hand and sits on a horse-throne, embracing His consort Mamaki. He is accompanied by the two male bodhisattvas Akasagarbha and Samantabhadra and the two female bodhisattvas Mala and Dupa, so that six Buddha forms appear out of the space of rainbow light. The yellow light of the skanda of feeling in its basic purity, the wisdom of equality, brilliant yellow, adorned with disks of light, luminous and clear, unbearable to the eyes, will come towards you from the heart of Ratnasambhava and his consort and pierce your heart so that your eyes cannot bear to look at it. At the same time, together with the wisdom light, the soft blue light of human beings will also pierce your heart. At that time, under the influence of pride, you will be terrified and escape from the sharp clear yellow light, but you will feel an emotion of pleasure and attraction towards the soft blue light of human beings. At that moment do not be afraid of the yellow light, luminous and clear, sharp and bright, but recognize it as wisdom. Let your mind rest in it, relaxed in a state of non-action, and be drawn to it with longing. If you recognize it as the natural radiance of your own mind. Even though you do not feel devotion and do not say the inspiration prayer, all the forms and lights and rays will merge inseparably with you and you will attain enlightenment. If you cannot recognize it as the natural radiance of your own mind, supplicate it with devotion, thinking, it is the light ray of blessed Ratnasambhava's compassion. I take refuge in it. It is the light-ray hook of blessed Ratnasambhava's compassion, so feel longing for it. Do not take pleasure in the soft blue light of human beings. That is the inviting light path of unconscious tendencies accumulated by your intense pride. If you are attracted to it, you will fall into the human realm and experience birth, old age, death and suffering, and never escape from the muddy swamp of samsara. It is an obstacle blocking the path of liberation, so do not look at it, but give up pride, give up your unconscious tendencies. Do not be attracted to it, do not yearn for it. Feel longing for the luminous yellow light and say this inspiration prayer with intense one-pointed concentration on blessed Ratnasambhava. When through intense pride I wander in samsara, on the luminous light path of the wisdom of equality, may blessed Ratnasambhava go before me, his consort Mamakī behind me. Help me to cross the Bardo's dangerous pathway and bring me to the perfect Buddha state." By saying this inspiration prayer with deep devotion, he will dissolve into rainbow light in the heart of blessed Ratnasambhava and his consort and become a Sambhogakaya Buddha in the southern realm, the glorious. By being shown in this way, liberation is certain, however weak one's capacities may be. Yet even after being shown like this many times, there are people whose good opportunities have run out, such as those who have done great evil or let their samaya practice degenerate, who will not recognize. Disturbed by desire and veils of error, they will be afraid of the sounds and lights and will escape. So then on the fourth day, blessed Amitabha's circle of deities will come to invite them, together with the light path of the hungry ghosts built from desire and meanness. To show him again, one should call the dead person by name and say these words. O child of noble family, listen without distraction. On the fourth day, a red light, the purified element of fire, will shine, and at the same time blessed Amitabha will appear before you from the red western realm, the Blissful. His body is red in color, he holds a lotus in his hand and sits on a peacock throne, embracing His consort, Pandaravasini. He is accompanied by the two male bodhisattvas, Avalokitesvara and Manjushri, and the two female bodhisattvas, Gita and Aloka, so that six buddha-forms appear out of the space of rainbow light. The red light of the skanda of perception in its basic purity, the wisdom of discrimination, brilliant red, adorned with disks of light luminous and clear, sharp and bright, will come from the heart of Amitabha and his consort and pierce your heart so that your eyes cannot bear to look at it. Do not be afraid of it. At the same time, together with the wisdom light, the soft yellow light of the hungry ghosts will also shine. Do not take pleasure in it. Give up desire and yearning. At that time, under the influence of intense desire, you will be terrified and escape from the sharp, bright red light. But you will feel pleasure and attraction towards the soft yellow light of the hungry ghosts. At that moment do not fear the red light, sharp and brilliant, luminous and clear, but recognize it as wisdom. Let your mind rest in it, relaxed, in a state of non-action. Be drawn to it with faith and longing. If you recognize it as your own natural radiance, even if you do not feel devotion and do not say the inspiration prayer, all the forms and lights and rays will merge inseparably with you, and you will attain enlightenment. If you cannot recognize it in this way, supplicate it with devotion, thinking, It is the light ray of blessed Amitabha's compassion. I take refuge in it. The light-ray hook of blessed Amitabha's compassion, feel devotion and do not escape. Even if you escape, it will stay with you inseparably. Do not be afraid. Do not be attracted to the soft yellow light of the hungry ghosts. That is the light path of unconscious tendencies accumulated by your intense desire. If you are attracted to it, you will fall into the realm of the hungry ghosts and experience unbearable misery from hunger and thirst. It is an obstacle blocking the path of liberation, so do not be attracted to it, but give up your unconscious tendencies. Do not yearn for it. Feel longing for the luminous, brilliant red light, and say this inspiration prayer with with intense, one-pointed concentration on Blessed Amitābha and His consort. When through intense desire I wander in saṁsāra, on the luminous, light path of discriminating wisdom, may Blessed Amitābha go before me, His consort, Paṇḍāravāsini, behind me, and help me to cross the Bardo's dangerous pathway and bring me to the perfect Buddha state. By saying this inspiration prayer with deep devotion, he will dissolve into rainbow light in the heart of blessed Amitabha, infinite light, with his consort, and become a Sambhogakaya Buddha in the Western realm, the Blissful. It is impossible not to be liberated by this. Yet even after being shown in this way, sentient beings cannot give up their unconscious tendencies because of long habituation, and under the influence of envy and evil karma, they are afraid of the sounds and lights. They are not caught by the light-ray hook of compassion, but wander downwards to the fifth day of the bardo state. So then blessed Amoghasiddhi's circle of deities with their light-rays of compassion will come to invite them, and the light path of the jealous gods, built from the emotion of envy, will also invite them. Then to show him again, one should call the dead person by name and say these words, O child of noble family, listen without distraction. On the fifth day, a green light, the purified element of air will shine, and at the same time, blessed Amoghasiddhi, Lord of the Circle, will appear before you from the green northern realm accumulated actions. His body is green in color. He holds a double vajra in his hand and sits on a throne of Shang Shang birds soaring in the sky, embracing His consort, Samaya-Tara. He is accompanied by the two male bodhisattvas, Vajrapani and Sarva-Nivarna-Viskambin, and the two female bodhisattvas, Ganda and Naividya, so that six Buddha-forms appear out of the space of rainbow light. The green light of this Ganda of concept in its basic purity, the action-accomplishing wisdom, brilliant green, luminous and clear, sharp and terrifying, adorned with disks of light, will come from the heart of Amogha Siddhi and his consort and pierce your heart so that your eyes cannot bear to look at it. Do not be afraid of it. It is the spontaneous play of your own mind. So rest in the supreme state free from activity and care in which there is no near or far love or hate. At the same time together with the wisdom light, the soft red light of the jealous gods caused by envy will also shine on you. Meditate so that there is no difference between love and hate, but if your intelligence is weak, then simply do not take pleasure in it. At that time, under the influence of intense envy, you will be terrified and escape from the sharp, brilliant green light, but you will also feel pleasure and attraction towards the soft red light of the jealous gods. At that moment, do not be afraid of the green light, sharp and brilliant, luminous and clear, but recognize it as wisdom. Let your mind rest in it, relaxed in a state of non-action, and supplicate it with devotion, thinking, It is the light ray of blessed Amoghasiddhi's compassion. I take refuge in it. It is the light ray hook of blessed Amoghasiddhi's compassion, called the action accomplishing wisdom. So long for it and do not escape. Even if you escape, it will stay with you inseparably. Do not be afraid of it. Do not be attracted to the soft red light of the jealous gods. That is the inviting path of karma accumulated by your intense envy. If you are attracted to it, you will fall into the realm of the jealous gods and experience unbearable misery from fighting and quarreling. It is an obstacle blocking the path of liberation, so do not be attracted to it, but give up your unconscious tendencies. Feel longing for the luminous, brilliant green light and say this inspiration prayer with intense, one-pointed concentration of blessed Amoghasiddhi and his consort. When through intense envy I wander in samsara, on the luminous light path of action-accomplishing wisdom, may Blessed Amoghasiddhi go before me, his consort, Samaya Tara, behind me, help me to cross the bardo's dangerous pathway and bring me to the perfect Buddha state. By saying this inspiration prayer with deep devotion. He will dissolve into rainbow light in the heart of blessed Amoghasiddhi and his consort, and become a Sambhogakaya Buddha in the northern realm, perfected actions. However weak his good karmic results may be, by being shown like this in many stages, if he does not recognize it one, he will at another, so it is impossible not to be liberated. But even after being shown in this way many times, those who have been habituated to many unconscious tendencies for a long time and have never become familiar with the pure visions of the five wisdoms are carried backwards by their bad tendencies, even though they are shown. So they are not caught by the light ray hook of compassion, but become bewildered and frightened by the lights and rays, and wander downwards. So then on the sixth day the Buddhas of the five families, with their consorts and attendant deities, will appear simultaneously, and at the same time the lights of the six realms will also shine simultaneously. To show Him, one should call the dead person by name and say these words, O child of noble family, listen without distraction. Even though you were shown when the light of each of the five families appeared until yesterday, under the influence of bad tendencies, you were bewildered by them, and so you have remained here until now. If you had recognized the natural radiance of the wisdoms of those five families as your own projection, you would have dissolved into rainbow light in the body of one of the five families and become a Sambhogakaya Buddha. But because you did not recognize, you have gone on wandering here until this time. So now watch without distraction. Now the five families will appear all together, and what is called the four wisdoms combined, will come to invite you.

0:32:29
Recognize them.

0:32:30
O child of noble family, the four colored lights of the four purified elements will shine. At the same time, the Buddha Vairocana and his consort will appear just as before from the central realm all-pervading circle. The Buddha Vajrasattva, with his consort and attendance, will appear from the eastern realm complete joy. The Buddha Ratnasambhava, with his consort and attendance, will appear from the southern realm the glorious. The Buddha Amitabha, with his consort and attendance, will appear from the western blissful realm of lotuses, and the Buddha Amoghasiddhi, with his consort and attendants will appear from the northern realm, perfected actions, out of the space of rainbow light. O child of noble family, beyond those Buddhas of the five families the wrathful guardians of the gates will also appear. of death, Hayagriva, the horse-necked, and Amrita-kundali, coil of nectar, and the female guardians of the gates, Ankusa, the hook, Pasa, the noose, Sunkala, the chain, and Ganta, the bell. The six sages, the blessed ones, will also appear. Indra, of the hundred sacrifices, sage of the gods. Vemacitra, splendid robe, sage of the jealous gods. The lion of the sakhyas, sage of human beings. Dhruvasinha, steadfast lion, sage of the hell beings. Samantabhadra and Samantabhadri, the all-good father and mother of all the Buddhas, will also appear. These forty-two deities of the Sambhogakaya will emerge from within your own heart and appear before you. They are the pure form of your own projections, so recognize them. O child of noble family, those realms too do not exist anywhere else, but lie in the four directions of your heart, with the center as fifth, and now they emerge from within your heart and appear before you. Those images too do not come from anywhere else, but are the primordial spontaneous play of your mind. So recognize them in this way. O child of noble family, those images are neither large nor small, but perfectly proportioned. They each have their own adornments, their costume, their color, their posture, their throne and their symbol. They are spread out in five couples. Each of the five is encircled by a halo of the five colored lights. The whole mandala, the male and female deities of the families, will appear completely, all at once. Recognize them, for they are your yidams. O child of noble family, from the heart of those Buddhas of the five families and their consorts, the light rays of the four wisdoms will each shine upon your heart very fine and clear, like sunbeams stretched out. First the wisdom of the Dharmadhatu, a cloth of luminous white light rays, brilliant and terrifying, will shine upon your heart from the heart of Vairocana. In this cloth of light rays a sparkling white disc will appear, very clear and bright, like a mirror facing downwards, adorned with five discs like itself, ornamented with discs and smaller discs, so that it has no center or circumference. From the heart of Vajrasattva, on a luminous blue cloth of the mirror-like wisdom, will appear a blue disc like a turquoise bowl, face downwards, adorned with discs and smaller discs. From the heart of Ratnasambhava, on the luminous yellow cloth of the wisdom of equality, will appear a yellow disc like a golden bowl, face downwards, adorned with discs and smaller discs. From the heart of Amitabha, on the luminous red cloth of the wisdom of discrimination, will appear a sparkling red disc like a coral ball face downwards, shining with the deep light of wisdom, very clear and bright, adorned with five discs like itself, ornamented with discs and smaller discs, so that it has no center or circumference. They too will shine upon your heart. O child of noble family, these also have arisen out of the spontaneous play of your own mind. They have not come from anywhere else. So do not be attracted to them, do not fear them. But stay relaxed in a state free from thought. In that state, all the images and light rays will merge with you and you will attain enlightenment. O child of noble family, the green light of action-accomplishing wisdom does not appear because the energy of your wisdom is not yet fully matured. O child of noble family, this is called the experience of the four wisdoms combined, the passageway of Vajrasattva. At this time, remember your guru's previous teachings on the showing. If you remember the meaning of the showing, you will have faith in your earlier experiences and so you will recognize them, like the meeting of mother and son, or like seeing old friends again. As though cutting off doubt, you will recognize your own projections and enter the pure, changeless path of the dharmata, and through that faith a continuous meditative state will arise, and you will dissolve into the great self-existing form of wisdom and become a Sambhogakaya Buddha who never falls back. O child of noble family, together with the wisdom lights, the lights of the impure, illusory six realms will shine. The soft white light of the gods, the soft red light of the jealous gods, the soft blue light of human beings, the soft green light of the animals, the soft yellow light of the hungry ghosts, and the soft smoky light of hell beings. These six will shine together with the pure wisdom lights. At that moment do not grasp or be attracted to any of them, but stay relaxed in a state free from thought. If you are afraid of the pure wisdom lights and attracted to the impure lights of the six realms, you will take on the body of a creature of the six realms, and you will grow weary, for there is never any escape from the great ocean of the misery of samsara. O child of noble family, if you have not been shown by a guru's instruction, you will be afraid of those images and pure wisdom lights and attracted to the impure lights of samsara. Sara. Do not do so, but feel devotion to the pure wisdom lights, sharp and brilliant. Think with devotion, the light rays of the wisdom and compassion of the blessed ones, the Buddhas of the five families, have come to seize me with compassion. I take refuge in them. Do not be attracted to the lights of the six realms of illusion. Do not yearn for them, but say this inspiration prayer with intense one-pointed concentration on the Buddhas of the five families and their consorts. When through the five poisons I wander in samsara, on the luminous light path of the four wisdoms combined, may the conquerors, the five families, go before me, the consorts of the five families behind me, save me from the light paths of the six impure realms. Help me to cross the Bardo's dangerous pathway and bring me to the five pure Buddha realms." By saying this inspiration prayer, the superior person recognizes his own projections and merging with non-duality becomes a Buddha. The average person recognizes himself through intense devotion and attains liberation. Even the inferior person prevents rebirth in the six realms by the purifying power of the prayer, and understanding the meaning of the four wisdoms combined attains enlightenment by the passageway of vajrasattva. By being shown clearly and precisely in this way, many sentient beings will recognize and be liberated. But some, such as inferior people in uncivilized places and wicked people who have no experience of dharma at all and those who have let their samaya practice degenerate, are confused by their karma and do not recognize even when they are shown, but wander downwards. So on the seventh day, the vidyadharas will come from the pure realm of space to invite them, and at the same time the light path of the animals produced from the emotion of ignorance will also meet them. At that time, to show him again, one should call the dead person by name and say these

0:42:10
words,

0:42:11
O child of noble family, listen without distraction. On the seventh day a pure, many-colored light will shine in your unconscious mind, and the Vidyadharas will come from the pure realm of space to invite you. In the center of the mandala, filled with rainbow light, he who is called the unsurpassable, fully developed Vidyadhara, lotus lord of the dance, will appear, his body bright with the five colors, embracing his consort, the red Dakini, dancing with a crescent knife and a skull full of blood, gesturing and gazing at the sky. From the east of the mandala, he who is called the Vidyadhara, established in the stages, will appear, white in color, with a radiant smiling face, embracing his consort, the white Dakini, dancing with a crescent knife and his skull full of blood, gesturing and gazing at the sky. From the south of the mandala, he who is called the Lord of Life, Vidyadhara will appear, yellow in color, with beautiful form, embracing his consort the yellow dakini, dancing with a crescent knife and a skull full of blood, gesturing and gazing at the sky. From the west of the mandala, he who is called the great symbol Vidyadhara will appear, red in color, with a radiant smiling face, embracing his consort the red dakini, dancing with a crescent knife and a skull full of blood, gesturing and gazing at the sky. From the north of the mandala, he who is called the spontaneously arisen Vidyadhara will appear, green in color, his expression both angry and smiling, embracing his consort the green dakini, dancing with a crescent knife and a skull full of blood, gesturing and gazing at the sky. Beyond these vidyadharas will appear countless crowds of dakinis, dakinis of the eight charnel grounds, dakinis of the four families, dakinis of the three worlds, dakinis of the ten directions, dakinis of the twenty-four places of pilgrimage, male and female protectors of Dharma, wearing the six bone ornaments with drums, thighbone trumpets, skull drums, banners made from the skins of youths, canopies made from human skin, ribbons of human skin and incense made from human flesh, with countless different kinds of musical instruments, filling all the regions of the universe so that they rock and tremble and shake, making all the instruments vibrate with music so as to split one's head, dancing various dances they will come to invite those who have kept the samaya practice and to punish those who have let it degenerate. O child of noble family, in the realm of the unconscious, the pure innate wisdom, shining with the five colored lights like colored threads twisted together, flashing, vibrating, shimmering, luminous and clear, sharp and terrifying, will come from the hearts of the five Vidyadhara lords and pierce your heart so that the eye cannot bear it. At the same time, the soft green light of the animals will also shine together with the wisdom light. At that time, under the influence of confusion caused by unconscious tendencies, you will be afraid and escape from the five-colored light, but you will be attracted to the soft light of the animals. At that moment, do not be afraid of the bright, sharp, five-colored light. Do not fear it, but recognize it as wisdom. From within the light, all the spontaneous sounds of the Dharma will come like the roar of a thousand thunderclaps. It rolls and thunders and resounds with war cries and the penetrating sound of wrathful mantras. Do not be afraid of it, do not escape, do not fear. Recognize it as the play of your mind, your own projection. Do not be attracted to the soft green light of the animals. Do not yearn for it. If you are attracted to it, you will fall into the animal realm of ignorance and experience the extreme suffering of stupidity, dumbness and slavery, from which there is no escape. So do not be attracted to it. Feel longing for the clear bright light of the five colors and concentrate one pointedly on the blessed Vidyadharas, the divine teachers, thinking, "'These Vidyadharas with the warriors and dakinis have come to invite me to the pure realm of space. Please all give thought to sentient beings like me who have not gathered merit and have not been caught, although until today the light rays of compassion of so many deities of the five families of Buddhas of past, present and future, reached out. Alas for one like me! Now all you Vidyadharas, do not let me go any lower than this, but grasp me with your hooks of compassion and pull me up quickly to the pure realm of space. With intense, one-pointed concentration, say this inspiration prayer. May the divine Vidyadharas think of me and with great love lead me on the path. When through intense tendencies I wander in samsara on the luminous light path of the innate wisdom, may Vidyadharas and warriors go before me, their consorts the Dakinis behind me, help me to cross the Bardo's dangerous pathway and bring me to the pure realm of space. By saying this inspiration prayer with deep devotion, he will dissolve into rainbow light in the heart of the divine Vidyadharas and be born in the pure realm of space. There is no doubt. All the types of spiritual friends, too, recognize as a result of this and are all liberated. Even those with bad unconscious tendencies are certainly liberated here. The end of the first part of The Great Liberation Through Hearing. Showing the luminosity during the bardo at the moment before death and showing during the

0:48:45
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Now it will be taught how the bardo of the wrathful deities appears.

0:49:18
Up to now there have been seven stages in the dangerous pathway of the bardo of the peaceful deities, and by being shown at each of the stages, even if he has not recognized at one, he will have at another, and boundless attainments of liberation occur. But although many are liberated like this, sentient beings are great in number. Bad karma is very strong. The veils of error are heavy and thick. The unconscious tendencies last for a long time and this cycle of confusion and ignorance neither wears out nor increases. So there are many who are not liberated but wander downwards, although they have been shown accurately in this way. So then, after the meeting by the peaceful deities and the Vidyadharas and Dakinis is over, the fifty-eight blazing, blood-drinking, wrathful deities will appear, transformed from the previous peaceful deities. But now they are not like they were before. This is the bardo of the wrathful deities, so one is overpowered by intense fear and it becomes more difficult to recognize. The mind has no self-control and feels faint and dizzy, but if there is a little recognition, liberation is easy, because with the arising of overwhelming fear, the mind has no time to be distracted, and so it concentrates one-pointedly. If one does not meet with this kind of teaching now, even an ocean of learning will be of no use. At this point, even teachers who observe the monastic rule and great philosophers are confused and do not recognize, so they go on wandering in samsara. It is even more so for ordinary people. Escaping from the intense fear, they fall into the lower realms and suffer misery. But a tantric yogin, even if he is the lowest of the low, will recognize the blood-drinking deities as yidams as soon as he sees them, like meeting old friends. So he will trust them, and merging inseparably with them, become a Buddha. The secret is that in the human world he visualized the forms of these blood-drinking deities and worshiped them, and even if he only looked at their images drawn in pictures or three-dimensional figures, and so on, he will recognize the forms appearing here and attain liberation. But however much effort the philosophers and teachers who observed the rule made in religious practice, and however clever they were at preaching the scriptures in the human world, when they die, there will not be any signs such as jewel-like relics, rainbows and so on. While they were alive they cast abuse at the Tantras and could not accommodate them in their minds. They did not know the Tantric deities, therefore they cannot recognize them when they appear in the Bardo either. Suddenly seeing something they have never seen before, they think of it as an enemy and feel aggression towards it and as a result they go to the lower realms. That is the reason why, however good those philosophers and observers of the rule were, since they did not practice the tantras, signs such as various kinds of jewel-like relics and rainbows do not occur among them. A follower of tantra, even if he is the lowest of the low, however coarsely he behaved in this world and however uncultured and unrefined he was, even if he was unable to practice the tantric teachings, just because he had faith in the tantras and did not have any doubt or disbelief will attain liberation at this point. So although his behavior was unconventional in the human world, when he dies at least one sign such as jewel-like relics or rainbows will appear. This is because this tantric teaching has very great power. Tantric yogins who are above average, who have meditated on the visualization and complete practices and practiced recitation of heart mantras and so on, need not wander so far down in the bardo of dharmata, but as soon as they stop breathing, the vidyadharas, warriors and dakinis will invite them to the pure realm of space. of this, the sky clears and they dissolve into rainbow light and rain of flowers, fragrance of incense, sounds of musical instruments in the air, light rays, jewel-like relics, and so on appear. These are the signs. Therefore, those philosophers and observers of the rule, followers of Tantra who have let their samaya practice degenerate, and all ordinary people, have no means except this great liberation through hearing. Meditators who have practiced the great symbol and great completion meditations and so on will recognize the luminosity in the bardo of the moment before death and reach the dharmakaya, so it is absolutely unnecessary to read this great liberation through hearing. If they recognize the luminosity during the bardo of the moment before death, they will reach the Dharmakaya. If they recognize during the bardo of Dharmata, when the peaceful and wrathful deities appear, they will reach the Sambhogakaya. If they recognize during the bardo of becoming, they will reach the Nirmanakaya and be born in a better situation, where they will meet with this teaching and since the results of actions continue into the next life, that is why this great liberation through hearing is a teaching which enlightens without meditation, a teaching which liberates just by being heard, a teaching which leads great sinners on the secret path, a teaching which severs ignorance in one moment, a profound teaching which gives perfect instantaneous enlightenment, so that sentient beings whom it has reached cannot possibly go to lower existences. Both it and the liberation through wearing should be read aloud, for the two combined are like a golden mandala inlaid with turquoise. Now that the great necessity of the liberation through hearing has been taught in this way, it will be shown how the bardo of the wrathful deities appears. Calling the dead person three times by name, one should say these words, O child of noble family, listen without distraction. Although the bardo of the peaceful deities has already appeared, you did not recognize, so you have wandered further on to here. Now on the eighth day, the blood-drinking, wrathful deities will appear. Recognize them without being distracted. O child of noble family, he who is called glorious great Buddha Heruka will emerge from within your own brain and appear before you actually and clearly. His body is wine-colored, with three heads, six arms, and four legs spread wide apart. The right face is white, the left one red, and the center one wine-colored. His body blazes like a mass of light. His nine eyes gaze into yours with a wrathful expression. His eyebrows are like flashes of lightning. His teeth gleam like copper. He laughs aloud with shouts of Ah-la-la and Ha-ha and sends out loud whistling noises of Shoo. His red-gold hair flies upwards blazing, his heads are crowned with dried skulls and the sun and moon, his body is garlanded with black serpents and fresh skulls, his six hands hold a wheel in the first hand on the right, an axe in the middle and a sword in the last, a bell in the first on the left, a plowshare in the middle, and a skull-cup in the last. His consort Buddha, Krodhisvari, embraces his body, with her right hand clasped around his neck and her left hand holding a skull full of blood to his mouth. He sends out loud, palatal sounds and roaring sounds of thunder. Flames of wisdom shoot out from between the blazing vajra hairs of his body. He stands on a throne supported by Garudas, with one pair of legs bent and the other stretched out. Do not be afraid of him, do not be terrified, do not be bewildered. Recognize him as the form of your own mind. He is your Yidam, so do not be afraid. He is really blessed Vairocana with his consort, so do not fear. Recognition and liberation are simultaneous. When this is said, he will recognize the Yidam and, merging inseparably with it, become a Buddha in the Sambhogakaya. But if he is afraid of it and escapes and so does not recognize, then on the ninth day the blood-drinking manifestation of the Vajra family will come to invite him. So to show him again one should call the dead person by name and say these words. O child of noble family, listen without distraction. On the ninth day the blood-drinking manifestation of the Vajra family, called Blessed Vajraharuka, will emerge from the eastern quarter of your brain and appear before you. His body is dark blue in color, with three heads, six arms, and four legs spread wide apart. The right face is white, the left one red, and the center one blue. His six hands hold a vajra in the first on the right, a skull cup in the middle, and an axe in the last, a bell in the first on the left, a skull cup in the middle and a ploughshare in the last. His consort, Vajrakrodhisvari, embraces his body, with her right hand clasped around his neck and her left hand holding a skull full of blood to his mouth. Do not be afraid of him, do not be terrified, do not be bewildered. Recognize him as the form of your own mind. He is your Yidam, so do not be afraid. He is really blessed Vajrasattva with His consort, so have devotion. Recognition and liberation are simultaneous. When this is said, he will recognize the Yidam and, merging inseparably with it, become a Buddha in the Sambhogakaya. But if those whose karmic darkness is great are afraid of it and escape, and so do not recognize, then on the tenth day the blood-drinking manifestation of the Ratna family will come to invite them. So to show him again, one should call the dead person by name and say these words, O child of noble family, listen without distraction. On the tenth day the blood-drinking manifestation of the Ratna family, called Blessed Ratna-Haruka, will appear before you from the southern quarter of your brain. His body is dark yellow in color, with three heads, six arms, and four legs spread wide apart. The right face is white, the left one red, and the center one blazing dark yellow. His six hands hold a jewel in the first on the right, a trident bearing three human heads in the middle, and a club in the last, a bell in the first on the left, a skullcup in the middle, and a trident in the last. His consort, Ratna-krodhisvari, embraces his body, with her right hand clasped around his neck and her left hand holding a skull full of blood to his mouth. Do not be afraid of him, do not be terrified, do not be bewildered. Recognize him as the form of your own mind. He is your Yidam, so do not be afraid. He is really blessed Ratnasambhava with his consort, so feel longing. Recognition and liberation are simultaneous. When this is said, he will recognize the Yidam and, merging inseparably with it, become a Buddha. But if, even after being shown like this, he is pulled back by evil unconscious tendencies and is afraid and escapes and so does not recognize the Yadam. If even when he sees Yamantaka he does not recognize him, then on the eleventh day the blood-drinking manifestation of the Padma family will come to invite him. So to show him again, one should call the dead person by name and say these words. O child of noble family, listen without distraction. On the eleventh day, the blood-drinking manifestation of the Padma family, called Blessed Padma Heruka, will emerge from the western quarter of your brain and appear before you clearly in union with his consort. His body is dark red in color, with three heads, six arms and four legs spread wide apart. The right face is white, the left one blue, and the center one dark red. His six hands hold a lotus in the first on the right, a trident bearing three human heads in the middle, and a rod in the last, a bell in the first on the left, a skull cup filled with blood in the middle, and a small drum in the last. His consort, Padma Krodhishvari, embraces his body, with her right hand clasped around his neck and her left hand holding a skull full of blood to his mouth. Do not be afraid of him. Do not be terrified. Do not be bewildered. Be joyful and recognize him as the form of your own mind. He is your Yidam, so do not be afraid. Do not be terrified. He is really blessed Amitabha with his consort, so feel longing. Recognition and liberation are simultaneous. When this is said, he will recognize it to be the Yidam, and merging inseparably with it become a Buddha. But if even after being shown like this he is pulled back by evil unconscious tendencies and is afraid and escapes and so cannot recognize the Yidam, then on the twelfth day the blood-drinking manifestations of the karma family will come, with the Gauris, Pisacis and Yoginis to invite him. If he does not recognize, he will be afraid, so to show him again one should call the dead person by name and say these words. O child of noble family, listen without distraction. When the twelfth day has come, the blood-drinking manifestation of the karma family called blessed karma-haruka will emerge from the northern quarter of your brain and appear before you clearly in union with his consort. His body is dark green in color with three heads, six arms and four legs spread wide apart. The right face is white, the left one red, and the center one majestic dark green. His six hands hold a sword in the first on the right, a trident bearing three human heads in the middle, and a rod in the last, a bell in the first on the left, a skullcup in the middle, and a plowshare in the last. His consort, Karma-Krodhisvari, embraces his body, with her right hand clasped around his neck and her left hand holding a skull full of blood to his mouth. Do not be afraid of him, do not be terrified, do not be bewildered. Recognize him as the form of your own mind. He is your Yidam, so do not be afraid. He is really blessed Amoghasiddhi with his consort, so feel intense devotion. Recognition and liberation are simultaneous." When this is said, he will recognize the Yidam and, merging inseparably with it become a Buddha. Through the instructions of his guru he will recognize them as his own projections, the play of the mind, and he will be liberated. It is just like seeing a stuffed lion, for instance. He feels very frightened if he does not know that it is really only a stuffed lion, but if someone shows him what it is, he is astonished and no longer afraid. So here too he feels terrified and bewildered when the blood-drinking deities appear with their huge bodies and thick limbs, filling the whole of space. But as soon as he is shown, he recognizes them as his own projections, or as yidams. The luminosity on which he has meditated before and the self-existing luminosity which arises later, mother and son, merge together, and like meeting a man he used to know very well, the self-liberating luminosity of his own mind spontaneously arises before him, and he is self-liberated. If he does not receive this showing, even a good person can turn back from here and wander in samsara. Then the eight wrathful gauris and the pisacis with various heads will emerge from within his own brain and appear before him. So to show him again, one should call the dead person by name and say these words, O child of noble family, listen without distraction. The eight Gauris will emerge from within your own brain and appear before you. Do not be afraid of them. From the eastern quarter of your brain, white Gauri will appear to you, holding a corpse as a club in her right hand and a skull cup filled with blood in her left hand. Do not be afraid. From the south, yellow gowri, shooting an arrow from a bow. From the west, red pramoha, holding a sea-monster banner. From the north, black vetali, holding a vajra and a skull-cup filled with blood. From the southeast, orange pukasi, holding entrails in her right hand and eating them with her left. From the southwest, dark green gasmari, drinking from a skullcup filled with blood, which she holds in her left hand and stirs with a vajra in her right hand. From the northwest, pale yellow chandali, tearing a head and body apart, holding the heart in her right hand and eating. These eight gauris of the directions, surrounding the five blood-drinking herukas, will emerge from within your own brain and appear before you. Do not be afraid of them. O child of noble family, listen without distraction. After them, in turn, the eight pisacis of the holy places will emerge and appear before you. From the east, Singhamukha, wine-colored, lion-headed, with her two hands crossed on her breast, holding a corpse in her mouth and tossing her mane. From the south, Vyagrimukha, red, tiger-headed, with her two arms crossed pointing downwards, her eyes staring and her teeth snarling. From the west, Surgalamukha, black, fox-headed, holding a razor in her right hand and entrails in her left, eating them and licking the blood. From the north, Svanamukha, dark blue, wolf-headed, carrying a corpse to her mouth with both hands, her eyes staring. From the southeast, Grudra Mukha, pale yellow, vulture-headed, carrying a large human corpse over her shoulder and holding a skeleton in her hand. From the southwest, Kanka Mukha, dark red, hawk-headed, carrying a large flayed skin over her shoulder. From the northwest, Kaka Mukha, black, raven-headed, holding a skullcup in her left hand and a sword in her right, and eating a heart and lungs. From the northeast, Ulumukha, dark blue, owl-headed, holding a vajra in her right hand and a sword in her left, and eating. These eight pisacis of the holy places, surrounding the five blood-drinking Herukas, will emerge from within your own brain and appear before you. Do not be afraid of them. Recognize whatever appears as the play of the mind, your own projections. O child of noble family, the four goddesses of the gates will also emerge from within your brain and appear before you, so recognize them. From the eastern quarter of your brain, Ankusha, white, tiger-headed, holding a goad and a skullcup filled with blood, will emerge and appear before you. From the south, Pasha, yellow, sow-headed, holding a noose. From the west, Shunkala, red, lion-headed, holding an iron chain. And from the north, Ganta, green, serpent-headed, holding a bell. These four goddesses of the gates will emerge from within your own brain and appear before you. Recognize them as yidams. O child of noble family, after the thirty wrathful Harukas, the twenty-eight yogins will emerge and turn from within your brain and appear before you, with various heads and bearing various symbols. Do not be afraid of them, but recognize whatever appears as the play of your mind, your own projections. At this moment of reaching the crucial point, remember the instructions of your guru. O child of noble family, from the east the six yoginis of the east will emerge from within your brain and appear before you. Rakshasi, demoness, wine-colored, with the head of a yak, holding a vajra in her hand. Brahmi — orange, serpent-headed, holding a lotus in her hand. Mahadevi — great goddess, dark green, leopard-headed, holding a wheel in her right hand. Kumari, virgin, red, with the head of a yellow bear, holding a short spear in her hand. And Indrani, white, with the head of a brown bear, holding a noose of entrails in her hand. Do not be afraid of them. O child of noble family, from the south, the six yoginis of the south will emerge from within your brain and appear before you. Vajra, yellow, with the head of a pig, holding a razor in her hand. Shanti, peace, red, with the head of a sea monster, holding a vase in her hand. Candra, moon, white, hawk-headed, holding a vajra in her hand. Danda, club, dark green, fox-headed, holding a skull full of blood in her hand. Do not be afraid of them. O child of noble family, from the West the six yoginis of the West will emerge from within your brain and appear before you. Bhaksini, eater, dark green, vulture-headed, holding a club in her hand. Rati — pleasure, red, horse-headed, holding a large corpse's trunk in her hand. Mahabala — great strength, white, Garuda-headed, holding a club in her hand. Raksasi — demoness, red, dog-headed, cutting with a vajra razor in her hand, Kama, desire, red, with the head of a hoopoe, shooting an arrow from a bow in her hand, and Vasuraksha, protectress of wealth, dark green, with the head of a deer, holding a vase in her hand. Do not be afraid of them. O child of noble family, from the north the six yoginis of the north will emerge from within your own brain and appear before you. Vayudevi, wind goddess, blue, wolf-headed, waving a flag in her hand. Nari, woman, red, buffalo-headed, holding a stake in her hand. Larahi, sow, black, with a head of a sow, holding a noose of teeth in her hand. Vudra, red, with a head of a crow, holding a child's skin in her hand. Maha-Hastini, elephant, dark green, elephant-headed, holding a large corpse in her hand and drinking its blood. And Varuna-devi, water goddess, blue, serpent-headed, holding a noose of snakes in her hand. Do not be afraid of them. O child of noble family, the four yoginis of the gates will emerge from within your brain and appear before you. From the east, white vadra, cuckoo-headed, holding an iron hook in her hand, and from the south, yellow vadra, goat-headed, holding a noose in her hand, from the west, red vajra, lion-headed, holding an iron chain in her hand, and from the north, dark green vajra, serpent-headed, holding a bell in her hand. These four yoginis of the gates will emerge from within your brain and appear before you. These twenty-eight yoginis arise spontaneously from the play of the self-existing form of the wrathful Herukas, so recognize them. O child of noble family, the Dharmakaya appears as the peaceful deities out of part of the emptiness, recognize it. The Sambhogakaya appears as the wrathful deities out of part of the luminosity, so recognize

1:15:55
it.

1:15:56
If at this time, when the fifty-eight blood-drinking deities emerge from within your own brain and appear before you, you know that whatever appears has arisen out of your own radiant insight. You will immediately become a Buddha, inseparable from the blood-drinking deities. O child of noble family, if you do not recognize in this way, you will be afraid of them and escape, and so go on to more suffering. If you do not recognize in this way, you will see all the blood-drinking deities as lords of death, and you will fear them. You will feel terrified and bewildered and faint. Your own projections will turn into demons, and you will wander in samsara. But if you are neither attracted nor afraid, you will not wander in samsara. O child of noble family, the largest body of these peaceful and wrathful deities are like the whole sky. The medium ones are like Mount Meru, and the smallest ones are like eighteen of our bodies, one on top of the other. So do not be afraid of them. All phenomena appear as lights and images. By recognizing all these appearances as the natural radiance of your own mind, your own radiance will merge inseparably with the lights and images, and you will become a Buddha. O child, whatever you see, however terrifying it is, recognize it as your own projection. Recognize it as the luminosity, the natural radiance of your own mind. If you recognize in this way, you will become a Buddha at that very moment, there is no doubt. What is called perfect instantaneous enlightenment will arise on the spot. Remember, O child of noble family, if you do not recognize now and are still afraid, all the peaceful deities will appear in the form of Mahakala, and all the wrathful deities will appear in the form of the Dharma King, the Lord of Death, and you will wander in samsara with all your projections turned into demons. O child of noble family, if you do not recognize your own projections, even though you have practiced dharma for an eon and are learned in all the sutras and tantras, you will not become a Buddha. But if you recognize your projections, with one secret and one word, you will become a Buddha. If you do not recognize your projections, they will appear in the form of the dharma projections. They will appear in the form of the Dharma King, the Lord of Death, in the bardo of Dharmata, as soon as you are dead. The largest bodies of the Lords of Death fill the whole sky, and the medium ones are like Mount Meru. They will come filling the whole universe. With teeth biting the lower lip, glassy-eyed, their hair tied on top of their heads, with huge bellies and thin necks, holding the records of karma in their hands, shouting, Strike and kill! Licking up brains, tearing heads from bodies, pulling out internal organs. In this way they will come, filling the whole universe. O child of noble family, when projections appear like this, do not be afraid. You have a mental body of unconscious tendencies, so even if you are killed and cut into pieces you cannot die. You are really the natural form of emptiness, so there is no need to fear. The lords of death, too, arise out of your own radiant mind. They have no solid substance. Emptiness cannot be harmed by emptiness. Be certain that the external, peaceful and wrathful deities—the blood-drinking Herukas, the animal-headed deities, the rainbow light, the terrifying forms of the lords of death and so on, have no substantiality. They only arise out of the spontaneous play of your own mind. If you understand this, all fear is naturally liberated, and merging inseparably, you will become a Buddha. If you recognize in this way, they are your yidams. Think with intense longing, they have come to invite me in the dangerous pathway of the bardo. I take refuge in them. Remember the three jewels, remember your own Yidam, call his name and supplicate him with these words, I am wandering in the bardo, so be my rescuer. Seize me with compassion, O precious Yidam. Call your guru's name and supplicate him, I am wandering in the bardo, so be my rescuer. With Your compassion do not abandon me. Supplicate the blood-drinking deities with longing and say this inspiration prayer. When through strong unconscious tendencies I wander in samsara, in the luminosity of abandoning all fear, may the blessed ones, peaceful and wrathful, go before me, the wrathful goddesses, queens of space, behind me. Help me to cross the Bardo's dangerous pathway and bring me to the perfect Buddha state. When parted from beloved friends, wandering along, my own projections' empty forms appear. May the Buddhas send out the power of their compassion so that the Bardo's terrors do not come. When the five luminous lights of wisdom shine, fearlessly may I recognize Myself. When the forms of the peaceful and wrathful ones appear, fearless and confident, may I recognize the Bardo. When I suffer through the power of evil karma, may my yidam clear away all suffering. When the sound of dharmata roars like a thousand thunders, may it all become the sound of the six syllables. When I follow my karma without a refuge, may the Lord of great compassion be my refuge. When I suffer the karma of unconscious tendencies, may the samadhi of bliss and luminosity arise. May the five elements not rise up as enemies, may I see the realms of the five Buddhas. Say this inspiration prayer with deep devotion. All fears will disappear, and you will certainly become a Buddha in the Sambhogakaya, so it is very important. Do not be distracted. These words should be repeated three or up to seven times. However great the sins and however bad the remaining karma may be, it is impossible not to be liberated. But if whatever is done for them, they do not recognize, then they have to wander in the third bardo, the bardo of becoming. So its showing will be taught in detail below. Most people, whether they were much or little adept in meditation, are very confused by fear during the bardo of the moment before death, and so they have no means except this liberation through hearing. To those who have meditated a lot, the bardo of dharmata comes suddenly when their mind and body separate. Those who have recognized their own mind and become experienced while they were alive are very strong when the luminosity appears during the bardo of the moment before death. Therefore practice during life is most important, and those who, while they were alive, have meditated on the visualization and complete practices of the tantric deities are very strong when the peaceful and wrathful visions appear during the bardo of dharmata. Therefore, it is extremely important to train the mind thoroughly in this liberation through hearing in the bardo, especially during one's life. It should be grasped, it should be perfected, it should be read aloud, it should be memorized properly, it should be practiced three times a day without fail, the meaning of its words should be made completely clear in the mind. Its words and meaning should not be forgotten even if a hundred murderers were to appear and chase one. Since this is called the great liberation through hearing, even people who have committed the five deadly sins will certainly be liberated if they only hear it. Therefore it should be read aloud among great crowds and spread afar. Even if it has been heard like this only once and the meaning not understood, in the bardo state the mind becomes nine times more clear, so then it will be remembered with not even a single word forgotten. Therefore it should be told to all during their life. It should be read at the bedside of the sick. It should be read beside the bodies of all the dead, it should be spread far and wide. To meet with it is great good fortune. It is hard to meet with except for those who have cleared away their darkness and gathered merit. If one hears it, one is liberated simply by not disbelieving. Therefore it should be greatly cherished. It draws out the essence of all dharma ta called the great liberation through hearing the bardo teaching which liberates just by being heard and seen sarva-mangalam

1:25:01
Okay, wow, so that was a lot. Good job making it through it. That was the most intense part of the bardos.

1:25:17
Next week we will go through the bardo that we talk about in Enlightened Pregnancy. But yeah, so today we got familiar with these energies, which is really helpful. It'll help you to navigate the bardos gracefully when it's your time and to take advantage of the opportunities for awakening. Even though if you were sitting up straight and trying hard to focus and be alert, if you fell asleep or feel like you didn't understand, don't give yourself a hard time. It's okay, it happens. These are intense and powerful teachings and sometimes sort of shuts off your brain a little bit. The lessons unfold over time with repetition, so that's why we're both listening to it and we're going to read the book. And you'll read it a number of times over the years if you're interested. So a couple of recommendations, if that felt really intense to you, take a shower and get some exercise today or get your body out into nature, either jump in the ocean or go for a walk in the forest, something like that that's grounding and clearing of your head will help you to integrate the experience. All right, so I believe before we go today, there is a short video that Ajahn wants to share with you. So we'll just wait a second and see if that's still happening.

1:27:10
All right, thank you, Kamala. That was excellent. Wasn't that fun? I love that stuff. So, yeah, the the study of the bardos. This is really an important thing to understand. And if you study it more, it becomes an advanced yoga. But in our practice, we have a lot of considerations of death. So we begin with the lesson of advising your death. And advising your death is realizing that life's short, that you're not going to live forever. And so when you're sitting around wasting time, not doing anything powerful or useful, and you say, wait, I could die in any moment. sobering awareness. And then you start to direct your spirit to cultivating Dharma, to having greater awareness, developing personal power. So that's the first lesson of death, advising your death. But then when we start advising our death, dying, reincarnation, and the death process. So the way that we first learn about the bardos is, well, you read it, read the book, or in this case, listen to the book, Liberation Through Hearing, and we start to understand it. The things that are happening in this book are very symbolic to the Tibetan culture, but they're very accurately energies, the primal experiences. They might describe it as some Heruka or some Buddha with a consort or something. But when you learn this yoga, which is an advanced yoga, you really meditate on each one of those things means, what aspect of life it is. Each one of those things, there's a procession and procession of all these things happening, right? And they're all intense. Yeah, in the bardo, you experience extreme primal awarenesses of life. And there's nothing you can get away from. It all happens. In your lifetime, you might be trying to run away from things. I don't want to face this. I'm afraid of it. But in death, it'll get you. You can't get away from anything. So in the dharmata, that bardo, everything, everything in the universe is there in its primal states. So when you learn this yoga, you meditate on each of those states. You don't try to exclude anything. You understand each of those states. It's very profound. So, yesterday when we were doing the meditation with Savitri, you know, the three songs, so Kamala and Savitri, they were guiding Sovang through what we just went through, walking him through it. And there's places where, you know, Sovang will have some, you know, like a little bit of fear or aversion. And then what we do is we add support. We learn a very powerful yoga to support someone when they're going through a hardship in the bar after death. And it guides, it takes away suffering, it shows people better opportunities. I would say it's kind of like, you know, if you have a guru, right, a spiritual teacher. So you might be sitting there all angry and just going through anger and then the teacher will go, hey, hey, you know what Buddha said? Buddha said something really cool. And look, how about go over to the ocean? And you go, oh, oh, Buddha said something cool. Oh, that sounds cool. Oh, the ocean, yeah. Why am I just going to the Bardo's after death, most people just follow their karmas. They just get stuck in whatever state of mind they're in, and they don't have any thought of dharma. They just go, karma, karma, karma, think, think, think. I like that, I'm afraid of that. So they just go, whew. And people suffer greatly after death. I mean, you can see why, after learning a little bit of the bardos. But what we learned to do as advanced yogis, it's a very advanced yoga, the yoga of the bardos. But we learned what those dimensions are, what they mean. And we also learned powers to help people. So it's a very cool thing to come across a yogi who has these skills. It's very unusual, actually. So Savitri and Kamala have learned this. They've worked on it for years. And I remember when I was teaching them the advanced practice of it, I was like, I don't know if they're going to get this. It's very advanced. But they did. I was pleasantly surprised. Yeah. But this is a real deal. It means a lot to a being to have someone who can help. So when you have family members or close friends who pass away, let us know because we can help them. Yeah, but it's fun. I like it. I like martial arts too. It's like punching, being challenged and stuff like that. It's like intense stuff, dealing with intense energy. It's kind of along those lines. So next week, we're going to go into the Bardo of the coming. And that's really exciting. That's a really good one. So it's fun learning the Bardos. And for the first time, it's probably really weird to you guys. This is something that we actually study more and more and more and more. The dimensions of the bardos become things that we are more aware of. The bardos aren't just after death, actually. The bardos exist right here in life. So we learn, just like advising your death, we learn about death and we learn more about life. So we're gonna end with a video that most of you will remember. It's a video recording of Tz'oam telling a story of having a difficult time in finding a very high spiritual aspiration to become a K'empo. And this consideration that we did, listening to the Bhārata-Padāla, was again the process or the blessing for Tsonga. And we're going to continue that through the week into next week. I just wanted to show another video recording of Tsonga, because this is where this teaching this this teaching came from his blessing of death all right so thank you all I'll see you later I want to share in my life I have a lot of experience. From that experience I learned. One of my best experience in 2005 when I was in second final year, that time I learned one of the best lesson in my life. That was in the institute we have almost 300 students, now you can imagine there is good, bad. Now some of the students, I don't know what they have think, but what they have done is that time, in the institute we have our three gembal, means one of the, in Buddhism we call highest teacher. And one of the teacher is so strict, so disciplined and then some of the students they don't like him. Even I also a little bit I don't like it because of his strict. And some of the students what they have done is, I mean the weekend everybody was sleeping in that time and they in the morning I think in the morning 4am that time, they come to his room. That time the Khenpo was not in the room, he was in his house. Then they destroy his drawer by, mainly what you see, by annex, good annex, and they destroy everything. I think they come to some to kill him or beat him, I don't know, some student. But who is the student? Two or three I know at that time. Then I was, everybody was worried, what happened now, what to do? And most of my students was, in one way we think, okay this is one way he's so straight and I'm also a little bit happy in my heart, okay he did something. Then what I learned that time, then that Kimbo never inspect who did it, what he did. He never say any words for months. He just repair his door, everything, window, everything. He just did it like that. Then after a month which the persons who destroyed his room and window everything everything, he became very close to them. He treated them like that, he invited them to his home, and he talked very nice, he became very nice to them. Then after a few months, then the dead who destroyed everything, his everything his door everything. They confess to teacher we are very sorry because we destroy your your door window we are the responsibility and everything like that and it all confessed to the Kimball and Kimball say no don't worry I know I know you are you you are the people who destroy my door doesn't matter that is time is gone past that time maybe you have that time you have a situation condition in circumstances you have thoughts come negative and that thought the negative comes make it you take action that's why today you realize and you confess that is the grace and he say that that time he say that is the great teaching of the Buddhists. That you confess, you forget. Now you will find everything. That was, when he said to the student like that, then, which I also thought a little bit negative at that time, it made me so regret that, oh, without knowing to judge other people is so wrong. Then I become so close to teacher, especially that Khenpo. I close to him, I talk with him. Then I become one of his best, like a best friend when I complete my education. He was the one who guide me what to do. Until today I come, I reach to America also because of him, he's guided to these two dharma. That time I realized how to have forgiveness, how to be compassionate, and without saying any words, just do something good. Automatically other people will realize their forgiveness and they will do everything good.

1:41:09
That is the one lesson in my life, one of the best lessons I learned from my teacher.

1:41:14
That's it.

1:41:15
Just tell it.

1:41:16
So that's a cute story. I like that. I like how the Buddhist monks go to the master's room and start trashing. and start trashing. Okay, so anyway, have a good day, everyone.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
