0:00:00
Welcome. Let's begin with meditation. We're going to focus for one song on the heart chakra. Sit up nice and straight. Let's begin.

0:00:15
So, so so so so Alright. Today we have a profound teaching. It's a bardo teaching and it's also a bodhicitta

0:01:26
teaching. So we'll be going into a focus of one of the wrathful aspects in the third part of it. And we'll also be focusing on bodhicitta, the fourth point of bodhicitta, utilizing the practice of bodhicitta in one's whole life. And it's also very powerful after death. When you're experiencing the bardos, if you can have Bodhicitta, then it transforms difficulties into opportunities, or awareness, wisdom, wisdom and liberation. So this teaching is what I call the turning point. The turning point is a time where you go from karma to dharma, from self-struggle to a natural ease and flow from loss to gain, from lacking to fulfillment. It's a very significant My uncle had a very significant turning point in his life. When he was 47, he stopped smoking, he stopped drinking, and he started walking five miles a day. So, you know, he had been drinking and smoking his whole life. Then one day, he just gave it up, wanted to be healthy, walking five miles a day. In the first week, he made it to Mount Tam. To the top, to Mount Tamalpais, is across the Golden Gate Bridge, north of San Francisco. And it's this beautiful mountain where we go to meditate. He made it there in the first week. Now, this was 30 years ago. He started when he was 47, so now he's 77, walking 5 miles a day, and we have no idea where he is. So this is a living teaching. It's a living teaching because it's a long fit of life-giving. So this is utilizing the practice of bodhicitta in one's whole life, and also one's whole death. So Bodhicitta is in both places. It's very, very, very powerful. So, so long, he actually, he came to me to say goodbye. Spirits do this. After death, when someone's in the second bardo, very often they go to the people that they've known, the people that they've loved, the places that they've been to, and they see them for the last time. They say goodbye. So some of you who know him so long might have recognized him coming. But he definitely came to me in the second bardo right before leaving for the third bardo. And yeah, this is something that's very common. There's many stories about it. I remember it since I was, I think, 11, my next-door neighbors, there were two kids, Ron and Roman. And Ron, for some reason, he got hit by a car and died. And then it was a big tragedy. And then I talked to Roman a couple weeks later, his brother. And his brother said, yeah, Ron came to me last night, and we talked for an hour. And I was like, what? And he was just like, matter of fact. He's like, yeah, he appeared. We had a conversation. We said goodbye. And I was like, I thought it was so strange. And then a couple of years later, we had another neighbor, his name was Fred, and he died when he was pretty young, in his early thirties, I think. And my mother was very good friends with him, and he said, you know, he said, touch the walls, and then she touched the walls, and then she could feel him. She could feel the spirit. And that was like a very powerful dream for her. She mentioned it to me, and I was like, that sounds interesting. So sometimes the spirits will come in the dreams, sometimes you can see them appear as if they're physical. A lot of times it's just you kind of sense them. And that's what happens in the second bardo. And when a spirit is in the second bardo, in the physical, if you want to, you can connect with them very easily. Just bring them to mind and they become very present. So it was about 3.30 in the morning, and Soong came and bowed very deeply. And he said that he had stayed to see everything, go back home, see his family, see the Karmapa, and hang around Bodhi Woods, see everybody. He's like, everything is good. And he also said that he tried to talk to Tenzin, but I don't know if Tenzin listened. And he said, tell Tenzin that he didn't do anything wrong. So, he didn't hear that Tenzin. That's what he said to me, to tell him. So, then after that, he bowed, and then he went into the third bardo, dharma talk. Now, the third bardo is where you're not a ghost of this world anymore. You're gone into very, very primal states of consciousness. So your spirit is still there. It doesn't have any story. It just has direct consciousness. But it also has defilements of karma, if you have Probably you don't have any. So this stage in the third bardo is where Tso-Wang is coming to this place I call the turning point. And this is something that we can be inspired by, because most people don't come to the turning point. He's coming to the turning point because he has very good karma and because he has enlightened guidance in the bardos. So Savitri and Kamala's bardo blessing is something that it aided him to be able to come to the turning point, we can join him in this teaching of liberation. It's very, very powerful. So we're being inspired by his journey. It's a different journey. He's in the journey of death, turning point, or in the journey of life turning point. But because of his good karma and being on the path, pathway to enlightenment, he's able to go into this turning point and have a very powerful experience that we can learn from, be inspired by, and have a very powerful experience. Now, this is a time where he needs very wrathful energy. And guess what we have? Very wrathful energy. Since the solstice, there's been just a procession of wrathful bodhisattvas. So I was talking about on the solstice, blue Tara, or Kali, or Vajrayogini. powers that are very wrathful. And we're experiencing them now. And this transit of this wrathful feminine energy is going to end probably Monday morning, early in the morning. It's going to be at its height tomorrow night. But we're in it. We're in this powerful transit and it's coming to an end and ends are powerful. So we're going to take advantage of this time. So there's a point, they call it the 14th day in the Bharata Dharma Tha. And what happens is you come to a door. And the door is a doorway to enlightenment, to wisdom, to liberation, to deep insight. Now most people come to this door and they immediately turn around and go away from the door because of wrathful energies that are in front of the door. They're called the guardians of the door. The first guardian is the one that scares you away, and then you follow this karma. You're like, oh, don't like it, go away. So because of fear, you leave. But the turning point is turning around against that karma of fear and aversion and facing the guardian. This is very, very powerful. Now this guardian is described in the Bharata Paral as having the head of a white tiger, holding a a skull filled with blood. And this is a goddess of death standing in front of the door. So this is wrathful goddess of death energy. So most people see that and go, no, don't want that. Would rather not. And they just flee. You sense something like that, even if that's the way that Tibetans describe it. But it's some kind of energy that's intense. People come to it and go, mm, a door would have been nice, but nope. Don't need the thing in front of the door. So this is what you face in the bardo. But this is something we face in life. So, there's the, where's the door to Zen? Where's the doorway? It's everywhere, but there's something that keeps you away from it. There's the, there's, you have aversion. So we're facing, we're facing that wrathful energy along with the wang. We can face it, we can change, we can transform. They're different energies. He's in the bar to learn life, but it's something that we can learn from, be inspired by. I remember in New York, there was a student who, you know, we're in study together, one student got her black belt in karate. She just got her black belt. And then her friend was so inspired, but her friend was a yellow belt in karate. She was new to it. But she was so inspired by her success in karate that she brought that success to her career. And she got her first computer programming job. And it was inspired by something, a different dimension, right? Something completely different. But the inspiration was the same. So even though he's in a bardo and we're in a life, the same spiritual power and inspiration is possible. So this is the turning point. The first is called the fruition of the guru is the recognition of the help that you've got from your teachers. So you look at your life and you say, hmm, yeah, my teacher helped me with my meditation. My teacher helped me with my mindfulness. My teacher helped me be happier, get a job, maybe get more power. So you start to look at your life and have a recognition of where you've been aided, where you've been helped. And then when you see that, then you start to see what the teacher has brought that is good for your spirit, good for your life. And when you see that, it's quite a realization. It's an opening to a greater liberation. I remember when there was a time, so Samong was living in Bodie Woods for about a year, and he was learning tech and all that stuff. And he would come and talk to me just once in a while. He usually just listened and kept quiet. But one time, it was too much. He had too much fear and worry. And he comes to me, and he was so worried about learning to drive and driving a car. We lived way out in Bodie Woods. To get to a job, you'd have to drive all the way into Silicon Valley. And he had And then I just talked to him about fear. I talked to him about the first attention, this discipline, learning to drive. And I gave him an awareness of freedom from that And then it just hit him, and his fear dispelled, and he was very happy. Then he bowed very deeply to me, and then he said, I realized that the Karmapa is my Tibetan Buddhist teacher. So the Karmapa is kind of like number two to the Dalai Lama. He's the vice Dalai Lama and that was his Tibetan teacher. So he's like, the Karmapa is my Tibetan teacher. And then he said, but I realized that you are my heart teacher. And I don't know if that's a term, but that's what he said. And then he bowed again very deeply for a long time. recognition of the fruition of the Guru. That a teacher, especially an esoteric teacher or a teacher of Buddhist mysticism, can do powerful things to dispel karmic veils. And recognize that. That's recognition. Now, when you walk on the path with me, I just walk on the path just narrowly, but if you walk with me, you'll transform. You'll gain deep insight in meditation. You'll have magical and bright experiences in meditation. They're vastly different than most of the pastoral schools around. Vastly different than the Zen Center. I've been to those places and I've seen their meditation. This is living, bright, powerful, enlightening meditation. You'll be able to meditate much better than using those apps, the meditation apps. This is an empowered and luminous path. And if you walk this path with me, this is a path where you become empowered, liberated and enlightened. So it just happens. I like to see it. I'm walking a path and I like people to walk because I just like to watch them get bright and powerful and liberated. Beautiful. So, some of you, even in your first meeting with me, you saw the light and you realized, you came to this realization of the fruition of the teacher. And some of you, it's really cute, like a year later or two years later, you come to me or you email me and you say, and you say, wow, I just realized something. And sorry, I've been kind of a jerk for the past couple years, but now I realize that you're my teacher and I've seen this light and I've realized all the good things in my life. I see these emails come in frequently. Well, I'm sorry, I've been a jerk for two years. And then they write down how their changed, how they've become brighter, happier, more empowered, stronger in their career. This is the realization of the fruition of the teacher. It's a good thing. Some people who are my students don't even recognize that I'm your teacher. You don't have that realization yet. You're just all, somebody's that guy who says weird things. You know, that's cool or whatever, but you don't have the recognition. You don't have the spark, the realization, which is okay. I understand. Who wants some guru meddling in your life anyway? We all start off very self-oriented. I have to be the great one. Everyone must understand my success because of my self-awesomeness. I've got to be great. I determine my route in life. I, me, my way. It's not egotistical, but people start off with a me and my way, and I don't believe this and I want this and I think this everyone wants to be a captain Kirk I'm in charge of my enterprise Everyone wants to be a neo You're the one neo That reminds me of when I was no became a student so when I first started teaching My first student was Tara and if you know Tara, she's Ukrainian and has dark hair. I guess that's all you can say. And then Ajna, he's this white American guy with dark hair. So then he comes to meditation class and I'm teaching him and he's like, wow, this is magical, right? So you recognize this mysticism, magic, and light right away. And then he looks at me, then he looks at Tara, and then he's like, I'm the one. He's like, okay. That's really cute. But everybody starts off with this, you know, the self wants to be the great thing. I don't want someone messing with me, meddling with me, telling me what to do. I do it my way. Frank Sinatra. You know, that song, I did it my way. So, that's cool. You know, I don't want to give in the way of that. The teachings of enlightenment should expose greater opportunities for you. They shouldn't hinder you in any way. They shouldn't bother you. So that's the good news. But you also have to recognize the utility of teachers in general. Like, you know, we're very trained to think going to a university is fine. You don't go to a university and go, I don't like the teacher. And if you go to the university not liking teachers, you probably won't learn anything or get a degree. So you go to a university because you want to learn from teachers. You don't go there to teach teachers or to have different opinions of the teachers. You go there to learn something that you don't know. So there is a utility for teachers. If you were going to go to a karate dojo, you go to a karate dojo because you can learn techniques and a power to save your life, to save the life of another person. You learn powerful self-defense. You don't go to a karate dojo to disagree with a sensei. No, I don't like the sensei. You don't gain anything from it. You go there to learn something that this person has great mastery in. Same with the sangha. Come to a sangha because you want to learn meditation, you want empowerment, you want greater spiritual liberation. And you don't have it when you come. You don't come in here as a meditation master, unless you are. You stop, clap, go and smile. Then I'll trust your opinion. But you come in here to see someone who does, who is a master, a master of meditation and and then you learn these things. So there's a utility. In the West, we kind of are always conditioned to be, trying to be a leader, trying to be the top dog. I guess it's not just the West. It's the ego. Very often wants to be the top dog, the one in charge, not getting pushed around. They think, if I lead, that is what is powerful. But in the East, there's a great wisdom to follow. Follow the way of life, follow the nature of life, follow someone who's powerful. This is how we see a greater wisdom, a greater success. So if you went to a university, instead of saying, I got my degree because I got my degree, you would say, this is how my teacher used to talk about, he got a PhD and he was like, I studied with great teachers. I learned from them. I followed them, and he got a PhD. Not by his own command. He didn't know all that stuff to get a PhD, right? He had to learn it, and he followed people to learn it. And you don't say, I got a black belt, so I'm a black belt. Rather, a more powerful way to look at it is, I learned great, powerful things to achieve my black belt. I followed the way of martial arts to gain the power that I have in martial arts. You see, it's a very different way. When we follow the way of life, when we follow truth, then we can have liberation. I've followed the way of enlightenment. I enlightened myself, and then it followed me. So this is a great wisdom. Yeah, no, it's very important. There's so much power in following. It's so much better to be a follower than a leader. I don't lead. I follow. I follow the way of life. I definitely don't lead. I follow. It's so important. Following is the way to great success. And, you know, the great teacher is, you know, It's life.

0:34:02
It's nature.

0:34:03
It's all the things that happen. But following is not a bad thing. Following offers opportunity. If you don't follow and you want to lead and you don't know it, then how are you going to lead? So let's take, for example, David Buick. So here in America we have a popular car, American car, called Buick. It's a brand. The LeSabre. I don't know what else they have. But Buick's been around for a long time. So David Buick, a Scottish-born American, he was a plumber and then he started learning how to engineer plumbing parts and plumbing tools, but he was fascinated by Henry Ford. From 1890, he was studying everything that Henry Ford was doing while he was sitting there making his plumbing tools. And then in, but he was really like reading the interviews that he had in the newspaper. He was, you know, seeing all the innovations that he was doing with cars and he was very, he was an automobile enthusiast. Even though he didn't work on cars, he just worked on toilets. Then in 1899, he met somebody who had money, and he said, I want to build car engines. And the guy said, I'll give you the money for it. So he built a car engine. I mean, he had some skills from plumbing, but from being inspired by Henry Ford, it created this opportunity. Once he created this engine, his engine was an innovative engine. It was better than Ford's engine. And then he decided to build a whole car around it. So then he built this car and he started selling it. And in 1903, the Buicks outsold the Fords. So his following Henry Ford created an opportunity for him to become a car maker and make a world famous, I don't know if it's world famous, country famous brand, the automobile brand that survives up until today. So when you see something, someone doing something great, when it inspires you, it opens up the doorway to that success. If you see something great and you get jealous, it closes you off from that success. So following is to be inspired by people's success. Not following, wanting to be a leader, this is a mistake many people make. They see somebody doing something great and they want that, but they're mad and jealous of the other person, their competitor and all this stuff. They close themselves off to that success. So, we see things like Soong in his good karma, facing the turning point in the third bardo at the door to liberation in front of the wrathful goddess of death. So we're inspired by that in a way, right? So when we see something, we're inspired. We never get jealous. We're always inspired. Someone gets a job, we're inspired. Someone gets a black belt, we're inspired. Everything that, every success that anyone has in the sangha, in the study, inspires us and gets us closer to greatness and happiness and liberation and success. So I used to train martial arts, or I used to train boxing in New York. So I've done lots of martial arts, and at one point I did just regular boxing. And I was doing boxing Doug DeWitt was a famous boxer. He was the 1992 middleweight champ in America. He was a champion boxer. Then he started teaching after his career. I was learning from him. He told me that the reason he got into boxing was because of Bruce Lee movies. He grew up in Brooklyn, in a working class neighborhood, and he would watch these Bruce Lee movies. And he'd go to the movies over and over watching Bruce Lee do his martial arts. And he's like, I got to do that. So as a kid, he's like, I have to do that. I've got to learn this kung fu and I've got to be a fighter just like Bruce Lee. And then so he looks around and in Brooklyn at the time, in his neighborhood, he couldn't find any kung fu. There was nothing around except for boxing. So he goes to the boxing place because that's the only place where there was anything close to Kung Fu because they were punching. And then he goes there and he learns. But he kept watching the Bruce Lee movies. So he was just inspired by Bruce Lee, inspired by him. And then he became a great boxer, a successful boxer, and then eventually the middleweight champ of America. So being inspired by someone is a good thing and that's following them, it's not shutting down, it's not going, oh I'm not inspired, that's following, right? Not leading, right? How are you going to lead Doug DeWitt or Bruce Lee, right? If you don't know. We always have to look to the people who are great and be inspired by them. Also when we follow people, we get the proper instructions. So this is very common. You're like, how do I do this? I want to do this. I'm trying to figure something out, a business, a technical thing, something. I'm trying to figure something out. How do I do it? If you're the leader and you don't know how to do it, you're going to fail. But if you ask someone, then you can follow them to success. So Mark Benioff, the founder of a very big software company, Salesforce, very successful Very successful company. Now they have the biggest building in San Francisco. So Mark Banioff, when he started Salesforce, he had very little funding. He started it in an apartment in San Francisco. You know, he was just starting off. He had been a successful salesman at Oracle, but this was his first real tech startup by himself. He knew Steve Jobs, so he would have a meeting with Steve Jobs once a month and Steve Jobs would give him an hour or so and Steve Jobs would tell him what to do. He's like, you've got to get this kind of customer, you got to get that kind of customer, you got to get this kind of programmer, you got to get this position. He told him because Steve Jobs had built Apple and he knew success and he knew how to build businesses and he told Mark Benioff the things he had to do to succeed. He gave him the instructions. And Mark Benioff, when he would meet Steve Jobs, he just wrote down everything that Steve Jobs... Steve Jobs is talking and he's writing every single thing down. And then he's like, okay, I've got to do this. He focused on it. Check. The next thing, he focused on it. Check. Next thing, check. And then because Steve Jobs knew what he was talking about, by following his instructions, Mark Benioff was able to succeed. So, this is what we have to do, right? We have to be able to follow people who know what they're talking about. Follow people who are successful. Follow their instructions. Don't get their instructions and just go, hmm, I have a different opinion. Then you won't have a success, then you'll be a fool. If someone knows what they're talking about, then it's good to follow. In my school we have instructions in the first attention and the second attention. We have teachings that support your physical life in a positive way, and your spiritual life in a positive way. There's teachings that offer tremendous opportunity. There are teachings that are very inspirational. We see people succeed in inspiring. And there are teachings that are very logical, very instructive. So this is a very positive school in that we help you in the physical and in the spiritual. But you gotta follow it. You have to follow it properly. You know, in the first attention, you know, in the physical, and also in the second attention, in the spirit. So long ago, sometime in the history of India, there was a guru. And this was a guru who was fully enlightened and he taught sannyasis and he taught lay people and he would just teach the Dharma. He started having these And his top sannyasi, who was a monk dedicated to practicing spiritual practice all day, always hanging around the Guru, he started noticing that he spent a lot of time with his farmer. And then he goes over to the Guru and he was listening in on the teachings. They're just talking about farming. So the Guru's all like, OK, here's what you should do with hay. So he's like, why are you spending all this time with that farmer? And the Guru says, he's like, well, you guys just sit there talking about farming, what's spiritual about that? And he says, he's my top student. And he goes, how can I learn what he's learned to be the top student? And so the guru takes a bowl oil into it, fills it to the brim with oil. And then he hands the bowl to the monk and he says, I would like you to walk all the way across the village, all the way around the village, and then cross the village again and come back to me. Do not spill a drop from the bowl

0:47:38
And then the

0:47:40
Monk says okay So he starts walking. He's very careful very very careful not to spill the drop He walks across the village circles the village comes back through very mindful of not spilling a drop And then he comes over to the guru and he goes there I did it and then the guru says How how much time during that exercise did you have me in mind and Then the monk says I wasn't thinking about you. I was just trying not to drop Any oil from the bowl. And then he said, the farmer thinks of me in every action. The farmer, like you, doesn't make a mistake in dropping oil or any mistake in his farming activities. But in every farming activity, not only does he have perfection of the action, but he also keeps me in mind. So he has true devotion in his work. He's got spiritual devotion as he does his work perfectly. And then the sannyasi was like, oh. And he's like, you did one thing, hold a bowl of oil. The farmer does a hundred things a day. That's why I spend time with him, talking about those things. And in every action, there's a different layer of devotion. And then the sannyasi says, I understand." So this is what we do, right? We do work, and we have observations of work. We do things for compatibility, but there's another dimension to it, a dimension of the second attention, we call it, the dimension of spirit in everything that we do. So this very powerful. Enlightened teachers create an opportunity for spirit. It's an opportunity of spirit that transcends time, transcends space. It's something that is of tremendous spiritual value and creates the opportunity for liberation. So an enlightened teacher, the recognition of the enlightened teacher is where you see the enlightenment and the power of spirit that's uplifting and makes your life better, that brings you success, peace, liberation. It's a very important realization. So long ago in India there was a great master, a great enlightened master, Sri Ramalingam. He didn't travel often. He stayed in a certain location. I forgot the name of the town. But he traveled one time doing a tour. He went to this village far away and in this village he gave a teaching. In the teaching he was filled with light, and he showed all of this enlightened wisdom. And then he said, anyone who wants to be my devotee can come, and I will initiate you. And then tomorrow, you can come back to my town with me and study with me in my ashram. And so there was a woman who was amazed by his teachings. She and many others came up and bowed at his feet and he gave them initiation and they became devotees. That night she goes home and her father falls very ill. So she starts taking care of her father and she realizes that this is an extreme illness that he has and that she has to take care of him or he will die. There's no one else who can take care of him. So the next day Sri Ramalingam and all the new devotees leave. But she's like, I really want to leave. I really want to go with my guru, but I can't leave my father because he'll die." So she stays with her father and then she nurses her father back to health. It takes a couple of years, but then she doesn't know where to go and she's just at home. But the whole time she would pray to her guru. She would meditate on her guru. She would have true devotion for Sri Ramalingam. In that experience she felt like she was with him directly. She had powerful meditative experiences and even though she was far from him, she felt that she was close to him. She felt that she was receiving teachings from him. So after eight years, he comes back to the same village and she comes to see him. She sees many of the devotees who eight years ago went with him and they received all sorts of teachings. She was talking with them, they knew all these amazing things, and she was so happy to hear them. And then they have satsang, and then Sri Ramalingam says, Of all of my students from this place, only one is liberated. And then he says, this one, the one that didn't have the opportunity to follow him. She became liberated, far away from him, not hearing any physical teachings, but just having that inner connection is the most important thing. So this is the fruition of the Guru, the realization of the enlightened support, the spiritual enlightened support of the enlightened teacher that uplifts you, that frees your spirit. The most important teachings come from that inner connection. So that's why I've given you that picture of me to meditate on, because there's no words in that. But if you meditate on that picture, then you can actually have the transmission or the connection with me that is an enlightened connection. It's the most important thing. Just like the woman, this yogini devotee, just through her devotion, connection, just thinking about it. She didn't even have a picture. She was able to be liberated because of that connection. So with my picture you can have a very strong connection with my enlightened nature that brings teachings, that brings peace, that solves problems. So when you sit there and you look at that picture, meditate on it, look into my eyes, and there's a powerful, enlightened connection. And it's kind of funny, I've gotten interesting reports from people, people say that when they're meditating, they see me moving, they see my face moving, they often And I'm all like, yeah, it's true. It's like one of those Harry Potter pictures, right? But really, it's true. If you don't see me nodding or moving, then still your mind, work on a deeper connection. Yeah. And some people say that it's like, like being on psychedelics, like they say, all sorts of stuff happens. Which is true, because there's a tab of acid every time you look. Just kidding. But yeah, no, if you meditate on that picture of me, look into my eyes, you'll see many dimensions. It's a very magical thing. I recommend that you continue with this practice because you start to see this connection. Very important. When you're going through difficulties in your life, let's say you have a real tough time at work, you can just bring me to mind. And then there's a light that brings a greater peace, a greater perspective. And you'll see that if you do that, if you bring me to mind, that you'll be able to handle things better. You're stressed out, less stress, more peace. You'll be able to do things in a more balanced way. Because just like the connection with the devotee in Sri Ramalingam, you have a connection with me as a student. And enlightened energy and attention and teachings come from That's the realization of the enlightened teaching and the enlightened teacher. That's the fruition of the guru. Now, gurus help you learn. So, as students, we have many things to learn. But a guru has magical ways to help you learn. I've seen many examples of this, from learning technology, to learning martial arts, to building a business, These are, this is learning. You learn the spiritual ways to mastery. And there's many, many magical ways that you're supported from the enlightened teacher. So in Tibet, long Denshin Nyonpo. And he had an attendant who was very devotional to him. He was bringing him tea, bringing him blankets, just doing everything for him, just very devotionally. as learned as many of the monks. So he joined the monastery when he was older. A lot of the monks joined when they were very young and they learned many things along the way. He didn't join the monastery until he was an adult and he was illiterate. So he couldn't learn many of the teachings. That's why, because he was a nice guy, he couldn't learn many of the teachings, he just spent all of his time, instead of learning sutras and doing meditation and chanting, he just would hang out with the Master and serve Him. They're all, yeah, yeah, okay, get him some tea and stuff like that. That was his job. And so, one day, the Master said to him, oh, he was lamenting, he was like, I don't know if I'm going to attain what I can attain in this life. I'm illiterate, I can't learn any of the teachings. And he said, so I don't know what I'm going to do, Master. And the Master said, you are learning the teachings far more deeply than the others. And he's like, what do you mean? I just take care of you, clean up and give you food and things like that. And then he said, I'll prove it to you. He said, in one year you will be able to recite the Guru Puja. Now the Guru Puja is a very thick text and only a handful of monks at the time were able to master it and be able to recite it. So he was like, how can I do that? That's one of the biggest texts and it's very complicated and I can't read and all this stuff. And then the master gave him the book, or the scroll or whatever, and he said, in one year, it's going to happen. And then so, his attendant started looking at it. He didn't even know the alphabet. He's just like, oh my gosh, this is crazy. And then once in a while he would have a monk and he'd say, hey monk, tell me what's that word? And the monk would tell him the word and he's like, I don't know, totally lost. But somehow he looked through it and then a year later his master said, his master was having a big fox on with all the monks and he called his attendant up, this attendant comes with tea and he goes, no, no, no tea. And he sits down and he says, now recite the Guru Puja. And he's all like, I, how can I? And then he's like, I gave you the Guru Puja. He goes, now recite it. He's like, but I, you know, I couldn't read it. Somehow by having the magical spiritual scroll and the teaching of the teacher, he was able to just learn it and then know it. Sounds funny, right? Yeah, but it's something that's very, very, very true, granted by the direction of an enlightened teacher. Enlightened teachers teach you how to learn things in different ways. Vivekananda had a similar experience. His guru, a great famous guru, Ramakrishna, who who himself hated reading books. You know, he like got out of school, he never went to school. He's like, I'm not going to school. I'm gonna focus on Mother College. But he said to Vivekananda, he said, you are gonna, you know, you're gonna be an amazing, wise scholar scholar and you will have the ability to know the essence of any teaching. And then Vivekananda went to the university, you know, got a degree, was very, very intellectual, very smart, so he got, you know, top grades and everything. Top And then later in life, after his liberation, he was traveling in the West. He was in Germany. And he met with a philosopher, because people were interested in what's the Indian philosophy and what's all this yoga stuff about. And so a philosopher met with him. And the philosopher was like, I've written this book, and it's like a big, thick book. And he said, you know, I have all these ideas and all these things. And then Vivekananda said, OK, I'd like to discuss your philosophy. And he said, oh, you would have to really study it for a long time to really understand it. And then Vivekananda said, OK, I will. And he picked up the book and he held the book and closed his eyes, felt the book, and then he said, OK, I understand your philosophy. Let's talk about it. And so he goes, it's impossible for you to understand my philosophy. And this philosopher was amazed and astounded that he could know truly the ins and outs of his philosophy and also to debate it and talk about the yogic views that transcend his philosophy. So this is the thing. My teacher did this as well.

1:06:52
Many times.

1:06:53
But I remember one time, a friend of mine, she didn't go to the computer school. She moved from San Francisco to New York, didn't have any skills, was working at a restaurant. And everybody else went to computer school, learning, getting their first tech jobs and stuff. And then she came to my teacher and said, I'm not gonna succeed. I took a couple classes, I'm just falling behind, everybody else is succeeding but I'm not. And then he gave her a tech book. It was this thick, really. It was an Oracle database administration book. And he said, read every word. It doesn't matter if you understand anything. Just read every word and then go get a job. And she was like, what? Okay. So, she read every word, and I remember when she was almost done with the book, I said, do you know Oracle? And she was like, no. And I'm like, what are you getting at reading the book? She's like, I don't know. She's like, I'm just reading every word. He said read every word, so I'm reading every word. And she's like, I just really don't understand it. And she finally finished the book, and then she's like, okay, so I read every word, I don't understand anything, and then she says, but I'm going to do what he said. And so she started interviewing. And on her first interview, she totally bombed. She was just like, they're asking her things and she's just like, I don't know anything. On the second interview, again, she's just like, I don't know anything. And then, then something happened. She like meditated or something. On her third interview, she went in and they started asking her tech questions. And then all of a sudden, something clicked in her, and she was like, oh, I read about that. And then she knew the answers. So she was able to answer all the questions, even though she didn't know that she knew. But once they brought it up, she just answered it. And then she got the job. And then she kept that job for a year, and she became an excellent Oracle database administrator. I've seen my teacher do that many times. Enlightened teachers have special ways to teach, ways to help you to learn new things that you never thought you could learn and in magical ways. So it's very important, very important. You have to believe, you have to be able to connect. It's so important. Connection is key. If you can't connect, if you're just like closed-minded to the inner connection, the light, then you're stuck in self. It's very limited. But if you can connect to the light, then miracles happen. So the recognition of the guru, the fruition of the guru, is that recognition of this enlightened connection. Something where you can do miraculous things. You can go from being afraid of fighting to being a black belt in martial arts. You can go from being totally not into math and not into tech and being an excellent technologist, a supreme technologist. You can go from being an egotistical jerk to being enlightened. It all comes from that connection, that realization of the light and spirit and uplifting, liberating power of Sudhir.

1:11:17
So we're gonna do a little meditation.

1:11:20
We're gonna sit for one song with a soft focus on the third eye. You're gonna look up here towards me.

1:11:26
Look me in the eyes.

1:11:27
And this is a meditation where I just want you to see, just be open-minded. It doesn't matter if you think. Don't worry about things. Just take a moment for this connection. Just for this realization of the power and the light that comes from an enlightened teacher. Okay, so sit up nice and straight, looked towards my eyes, and let's begin.

1:12:09
so so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Wonderful. Yes, it's much better than last time. In our sangha, the teachings are not just these high, bright, mystical insights, but

1:13:49
it's bringing these powerful spiritual teachings into your physical life. Because if you're just kind of being intellectual about things, going off into high dimensions, in bright meditations, and reading books, and having insight into life, you could be homeless. You could not succeed in your physical world. And if that happens, then all of a sudden, these high states of mind become unbalanced. So, if you go into high states of mind and you don't work on your physical attention, then what happens is you go into these high states of mind and then you go into low states of mind. Because you must have balance. This is a different age. We're in the Kali Yuga. It used to be that, yeah, go into a high state of mind, walk out into the forest, onto a mountain, and everything's going to work out fine. That's the way it used to be. Maybe in some little spots in India, it's like that still. Some places. But if you're living in the city, then ain't like that. If you go into high states of mind and you don't make your physical world as strong, then it'll be unbalanced and there's a problem. So we have a very strong practice here of going into high states of mind, having beautiful enlightened experiences, but we also have a tremendous focus on having the balance of our physical lives so that it is balanced and strong. We always say if we have a good meditation, a strong spiritual experience, it should lift up our physical lives to be strong. lives using our yoga and our spiritual meditation is better. That's the way it is. Otherwise, things get out of balance. I've got a cute story. Long ago in India, there was this pundit who learned everything. He read the panchads. He memorized them. He learned the Vedas, he memorized them. He knew the Mahabharata, the Bhagavad Gita. He read all of these tremendously powerful spiritual texts and he could just rattle off teachings and people would come and listen to him. And he could just say them and he He didn't have any realization, but he really knew these spiritual texts and could tell people about it. So one day he was crossing a river. He got on the ferry, on the little boat, and he was going across, and the ferryman was And he said to the pharaoh man, he said, do you know of the Upanishads, this teaching? And the pharaoh man says, no. And then he says, you don't know anything about the Upanishads?

1:20:15
And he goes, no.

1:20:16
And then the pundit says, wow, what a waste of life. And then he says, what about the Vedas? Do you know the Vedas? How about this teaching? He says, no. He's like, you don't know anything of the Vedas? He's like, no. Then the pundit says, what a wasted life. Then he says, how about the Gita? The teachings of Krishna? Do you know this? Do you know that? And then he says, no. Then the pundit says, what a wasted life. Now, they're most of the way through the river, and then all of a sudden, a giant storm comes, and rain and wind and the rivers going up and down, and then the boat flips over, and then the boatman says, all right, we're not too far from shore, we We can do it. Everyone, swim to shore. And then the pundit says, I don't know how to swim. Everyone else starts swimming. And the boatman stays and says, you don't know how to swim? He goes, no. He says, what's the Upanishads say about swimming? And he says, nothing. What's the Vedas say about swimming? I can't get anything out of it. He goes, what about the heat? What did Krishna say about swimming? And he's like, I don't know how to swim. And then the boatman says, what a wasted life. And then the river gets, you know, big current, waves and all this stuff, and the boat cracks and the pundit goes down and the boatman can't save him. And then he dies. The end. Thank you very much.

1:22:04
Kamsahamnida.

1:22:05
So, that's just a cute little story. Maybe it's a true story.

1:22:14
Probably. Why not?

1:22:16
All right, so, we're going to take a ten minute break. All right, so, we're going to take a ten minute break. We're going to come back and continue the teachings on the Turning Point.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
