0:00:00
Okay, welcome.

0:00:08
So last time we were in Shasta, a new dharma opened. And this was the dharma for the intermediate teachings for all students. And it was all students who made it to that power trip in Shasta. And then after that I saw there's a power in this. This is a good thing. So the next power trip we're going to have everyone will also get the intermediate teachings. And the intermediate teachings in the Anzebrego. That was the plan. But guess what? We're not there. We're here. But, you know, the wonderful thing about cyberspace and Zoom is that the Dharma is everywhere. The power is everywhere. So we can do the intermediate teachings from everywhere. If the Dharma is there, we can get it done. And if the Dharma is everywhere, then that's our job. So, we're going to do the intermediate teachings. This is bringing beginners up to the intermediate level. Now, just yesterday I accepted a couple new students as students. I don't know how long they've been hanging out. They might have just been to three classes and they say, yeah, I want to be a student. Okay, you go from beginner to intermediate, it doesn't matter. Maybe you didn't finish the Enlightenment Workbook, maybe you don't meditate every day, but guess what? You get the intermediate teachings. Some of us had to wait years for this kind of thing, but you came in at the right time. There's a dharma to that. But the intermediate teachings, you should have a structured meditation practice. You should have a mindfulness practice. If you don't have those things, if they're weak, then the intermediate teachings don't work so good. So when you get the intermediate teachings, it should give you a lot of momentum to make sure that your basics are strong.

0:03:02
When your basics are strong,

0:03:04
then the intermediate teachings add a lot more. We call it like turbo, right? It's like you get your RPMs up enough This is a car thing. This is and then I'll send But on electric cars, I don't know if it works the same Okay, so Even if you're pretty new or if you've been waiting a long time for this These are structures intermediate structures that if you engage them properly, they help you. They're very constructive. So even if you're a beginner, it's like, oh, no, no, no, this isn't something too much for you. You approach it with your practice. It just gives you additional learning, additional information, additional capabilities. And this is something that has ripened in the sangha. The sangha as a whole has, every student, even the new ones from like yesterday, has, there is a student at this moment can get the intermediate teachings. Even if you're a beginner, you're worthy of the intermediate teachings. You came in at the right time. There's a very important cycle. And you came in at the right time of the cycle. If you're here, you get it. It's a good thing. So, if you've been here for a few years and you didn't get it, well, now you get it. And the guy who came in yesterday, so does he. And we are all in the right way to develop ourselves. That's the way it is. Okay, so the intermediate teachings, primarily it's a transmission. Primarily, it is an esoteric teaching. It's an esoteric teaching that has no words or definition, but it's a powerful thing. And people who get the intermediate transmissions, these inner teachings, they are able to see a big shift in their life from the point where they got it. They say, wow, you know, it's kind of going along like this. I got that intermediate teaching and then my life went like this. So it's a thing where in this school, ask any intermediate student or any advanced student. They will say, once I got the intermediate teachings, things shifted. So it's a big thing. If you listen, take it seriously. It changes your karma forever and shifts you into a stronger condition of Dharma. So this is what we're going to do. And it's very simple. a couple qualifying factors of practice. And that means that you practice. If you don't meditate every day, then you don't access the intermediate teachings. So the intermediate teachings is very simple. You have to have a meditation practice. If you don't have a meditation practice, if you don't have a discipline of sitting in meditation every day, then you're not accessing it, right? So it's a cookie jar over here and if you don't meditate every day you can't get a cookie. Yeah, this is like Scotty Dog Training 101. So it's true though. So if you go, I got the intermediate transmission and I'm intermediate, but if you don't have the discipline, if you don't meditate, you don't get it, okay? So that's why I call it turbo. It's above like the regular RPMs of the world. All right, so you have to meditate and practice mindfulness. You have to really be in the game. That means that you're practicing. If you don't have basic practice now, then the intermediate teachings don't do anything for you. But when you say, whoa, I have this cookie jar, and if only I sit there and meditate, and if only I practice bodhicitta, if only I practice the enlightenment workbook mindfulness, then I have turbo, turbo enlightenment. Then then you're doing the right thing. So with the intermediate teachings comes a a little bit of responsibility of do the basics. If you do the basics, a little bit of meditation, a little bit of mindfulness, but you're working on it. You mean to, you're developing yourself. Even if you're sitting for five minutes in meditation, even if you're mindful once a day, when you go, oh, maybe I should be mindful. Maybe I should do a little compassion. If you do once a day meditation, and once a day mindfulness or bodhicitta, then you're in the game. You're in the ballpark. That's where the cookie jar is open. It's true. All you have to do is try your best. And if that's only once a day of a little bit of meditation and once a day of a little bit of compassion or mindfulness, then there's this whole cookie jar pouring cookies down on you. It's true. Okay, so let's talk about practice. In the intermediate practice there's a higher concentration and that is a concentration that is proper concentration. So in the very beginning we just have to sit there and focus on meditation. We're all you know like focusing on our chakras and stuff right. This is good and in the beginning it's really, really, really, really necessary to just try and use willpower of your mind to focus on the chakra. Now when you get to the intermediate practice, then things become a little bit more flowing because you'll notice that the beginning practice is great here, like, okay, focus on chakra. And then how long does that last? Usually not very long before thoughts come in. So, in the intermediate practice we have to start to shift. So it's a common thing in martial arts, we come in very karate. There's something, smash it, right? But if that thing's too hard, then we have to go into jujitsu, which is we go around where things are hard. When you come into the intermediate practice, you come into the more advanced techniques. It's not force against force. So if you're like, I'm gonna focus on my heart, and you're like, mm, and for 30 seconds, you can focus, that would be great. And then you notice you start thinking. Then you need to jujitsu. And that means stop focusing the way that you're focusing. Maybe listen to the music. Maybe open your mind to light. So the thing is that we have a certain concentration, but then that concentration will only last so long. The mental focus and concentration works for a period of time and then you have to open to new dimensions. So one of the reasons that we meditate to music is because music has different dimensions. and listening is a disposition of openness. So we might start very strong focus on a chakra. And then we find ourself thinking, go into the music, listen to the music, open yourself into music, and then bring your focus back. So focus is not just holding one thing, it's actually very soft. Even when you're massively amazing at focus, it's very soft. It's putting your attention and letting it flow. It's very Wu Wei, we would call it, right? When we first think in beginning meditation of focus, it's like a karate punch. Focus is that direction, that's the beginning. But actually, focus is like a wave, a wave of the ocean. The ocean wave is focused. The mind is focused but it comes back. I don't know how to explain this. Thoughts draw you off, but the mind of enlightenment doesn't draw you off. It rides the energies, but in the, but like a surfer, right? So you can be a surfer and then the wave can come and smash you down.

0:14:41
But if you know how to surf,

0:14:42
and then the wave can come and smash you down. But if you know how to surf, big wave comes and you surf the wave. This is the intermediate practice. It's no longer going surfboard against a wave because in Hawaii, they pretty much figured out

0:15:00
it doesn't work.

0:15:01
So, it's understanding the wave, working with the wave, the way the wave changes. At first you have to go into it, and then you have to turn, you have to work with it. So, the intermediate practice is understanding the waves. It's not just a direct, sit there, focus on chakra, boom, that's enlightenment. That's the beginning because you have to get some strength to paddle out on your board. But eventually when you go out there, eventually you start to know the way of the waves. At first, point your board towards the wave, pedal out, and it crashes on you. After a while, you know the way of the waves, you see it when it's coming, you're bright. So meditation is like surfing. It's important for us to understand focus. Focus is not just an isolated point. When things change, how do we change our attention? So, mostly when people, if you're in a fixed way, you're all, here's how I'm going to meditate, and then something changes, and then you start thinking. But if you say, something changed, a wave came, and now how do I redirect my That's intermediate. A wave came. I was like, I'm totally focused in my meditation. And then I was thinking about Chinese food. What happened? He didn't write it when it hit. But that wave didn't manifest into Chinese food. That wave was a wave of energy. So when you are meditating, watch your mind. Energy waves will come. And in the intermediate practice, don't fall into the wave. See when it comes. That's what surfers can do, right? Surfers are like out there on the board. And then they go, something's happening. So I was living in Hawaii and I was with Kana. Kana was a surfer since he was a kid. And we were out, I was learning surfing, and we went out, paddled out, didn't see any waves. And then Con is like, a wave is coming. And I was like, really?

0:18:36
Because it looks like no wave.

0:18:38
And he's like, yeah, yeah. And then he says, okay, paddle. And I'm like, whoa, there is a wave. You see it, this is where we get towards intermediate state. You see it in its smallest form. So when Kanna told me to paddle, I started to feel the momentum. And then I can jump up and catch the wave. So intermediate meditation is, can you catch the wave? Can you see it in its innocuous sense? You're meditating, focusing, and then all of a sudden some little thought starts to go So, when you have a thought, you have to recognize the essence of the thought. It's not a bad thing. The essence of the thought is an energy, like a wave. So if you're a bad surfer, wave smashes you. If you're a bad meditator, thought smashes you. You're a good meditator. You feel every subtlety of the ocean, of the wave. You feel it when it starts to bring you up. You react to it so you can surf it. So, this brings you to a different level of meditation. It's the surfer. The surfer level. You are not just sitting there trying to concentrate, getting smashed by thought. You need to feel energy come and redirect your thought. When you're practicing intermediate meditation, one of the most just one of the worst things you can do as a surfer is you can say, hey, I'm out here on the beach, here's some good waves, there are some very destructive waves over there, ones that run you into the rocks. No one's there. The advanced guys are not there, no one is there. They're beautiful waves. They look like, why don't you surf these waves? Because they crash into rocks. So even though they look like great waves, don't go into them. So in the intermediate teachings, you have to say, what are the waves that I can work with? Where should I not direct myself? So there are waves you don't go into. And a big one, especially for Westerners, is thinking about other people when you meditate. So if you're meditating and someone comes to mind, this is a wave that brings you into the rocks. And it's one that works very strongly in the West. In the West, we have a lot of competing thoughts with people. So in the West, if you're meditating, and you're intermediate, the one thing you want to stop is thoughts of people. If you can stop that, direct your mind away from that, and deal with your mind, then you're going to be well off. That means that instead of going into the big waves spreading into the rocks, you're dealing with an appropriate wave, understanding it. So this is very good. Now for the intermediate teaching, it's actually a transmission. And it's transmission that brings you into a higher echelon of spiritual understanding. So I've given some words about it, but it's actually a feeling, it's actually an awareness that you have, that you take to heart, that you bring into your meditation practice. So we're going to do this transmission, the intermediate transmission. Do we have a song for this? Ha! We're going to sit for one song. I was like, do we have a song for this? How about, um, on the third eye, and this is a, it's a very strong thing in our school, intermediate transmission. It's kind of like going, like in our karate school we go from white belt to bow down to black belt. We only have three ranks. And this is going from the white belt to the bow down. The bow down is the black belt candidate. And that means that you've moved from becoming from being a beginner to being someone who's ready, who's working felt. So it's a significant practice. So I'm going to give this transmission. So soft focus on the third eye and just be open. It's a very powerful time. The transmission is perfect. You don't have to have thoughts or not have thoughts. Just be. Just experience it. Because the transmission is successful and for real, even if you have a lot of thoughts. So just relax. Kind of feel the nature and the time and accept the teaching. That's the best way. And even if you don't, if you have all sorts of confusions and all sorts of things and that's the beginning of that teaching for you. So let's set up and march this train and let's begin.

0:25:48
So, you So, the the the the the So, Thank you. All right.

0:29:19
So, welcome new intermediate students and welcome old intermediate students, crotchety old piece of toast, advanced students. He did a good job. That was very good. Now, I was going to do some very, very, kind of, very strong empowerments today on Montero But I'm canceling it. And I'm going to do them over Zoom. So this is difficult for me because I really wanted to sit with all of you in person for these empowerments. However, it works over Zoom, so I think I think we're going to, we were going to have a number of empowerments meditations, esoteric teachings on the Montara Beach today but going to do them online over

0:31:56
soon.

0:31:57
So, if you're prepared for that. There's no need to go to the beach today.

0:32:05
Please don't.

0:32:09
We're going to do it. So, couple reasons why because we're, we're going to call it 19 pandemic lockdown, and we're going to get a lot of attention. So that's one reason. And two, the waves, like we've been having extreme waves and people swept out to sea, including people in the sangha who randomly went to the beach and decided to meditate too close to the water. So it's very dangerous. Now that's not something I usually shy away from. I'm all danger, not a problem. But we're gonna do this, and these are very, very powerful transmissions.

0:32:59
Very important for this time,

0:33:01
and especially working with the teaching of this time of bringing together these recapitulations of power and building them together as a step, as a way for the next elevation. These are very important, but we can do them over Zoom. Now, we're going to go into the next level of teachings. So, we've got teachings upon teachings upon teachings coming up, right? And they're just going higher So, this teaching is for everyone, every single student. You're all intermediate students. Powerful teaching and a wonderful, wonderful way for our whole sangha. We are all intermediate students, or advanced, or enlightened, or whatever. But we are all, I mean, we step into the dojo all committed.

0:34:27
No one here is a white belt.

0:34:29
Even if you started yesterday, you came in with a green belt.

0:34:35
People who started yesterday

0:34:37
came in with a high level of spiritual commitment. And everyone in this dojo is an intermediate belt. And we're going to the advanced belts. We're going to mastery, senseis, ushadeshis, and supreme lords of enlightenment or whatever. I don't know. So, we're working our way up, but we're not a school of beginners. We are a school of school of intermediate practitioners. I would just say practitioners, real students. I mean we all have, you know, what do you call it, beginner's mind, but we all have some strength and that comes from a lot of internal power and focus towards spiritual study. So the intermediate teaching, this transmission, is what we all are and we are going to be a teaching empowerment. This is for people who want to teach. Very powerful. It's like, I just got my yellow Good. Be a teacher. When you teach, you learn more. So the next level is going to be the After that, I think we're done. Until, we'll have a little bit of a break, but then what we'll do is everybody who is gonna come to Montero Beach, we're going to have a Zoom meeting and we're going to do a practice over Zoom. At 3 p.m.

0:37:01
At 3 p.m.

0:37:02
Really?

0:37:03
I can't wait. Okay, I can't.

0:37:16
But there's also the international empowerment.

0:37:20
Oh, international yoga empowerment after the teaching teachings.

0:37:25
So we can break up the stuff we've talked about at 2pm if you want to.

0:37:29
Yeah, let's do that. Okay, so we're going to go into the teaching teachings and when they became teachers they found so much power and light and teaching and that is going to be the next transmission. Okay but then after that it's only for the Europeans we have to have a blackout no Americans get out of here oh and Indians international so Europeans and Indians it's going to be a transmission for their yoga success. We're going to do that at 2pm for the Americans, but the Indians and the Europeans that have had their yoga successes, they get that. It's just like today's like Christmas. It's like yoga Christmas, it's like an enlightenment Christmas. All right, so thank you all so much and for all of you who return, who want to be teachers, who want the empowerment to teach, and who who return, who want to be teachers, who want the empowerment to teach, and who want to teach, you're welcome back.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
