0:00:00
So this should be all advanced students and also this is intermediate students. I especially want the Bodons to be here. So on the last evening in Shasta, I gave a special empowerment to intermediate students, to existing intermediate students, to this new level called the Bodon. The Bodon in martial arts is the candidate for black belt. So this brings a higher teaching and these are the teachings directly before the advanced classes, unless I'm giving a direct advanced transmission, and then I'll just have the advanced students for that. But the Bodans, when I'm talking about some advanced subjects, I'll let you be here. Now, some of you didn't receive that transmission. Maybe you weren't personally in Shasta, or maybe you missed it. So if that's the case, I will give a transmission to all the people who were the intermediate students to get to this Bowdoin level. Not today, but in a time coming up, I will give this transmission. So for all of you who are on the call, it should be okay, but we're really lifting the previous intermediate students to this new level. So today I'll go kind of easy on things. All right, so we're gonna start with a meditation. This will be a meditation on the heart. So sit up nice and straight, and let's begin. nice and straight. And let's begin.

0:02:04
So, so the the the the So, the the the the So, Thank you. All right, very nice. So, I went into a long tale about Jyoti and Gabrielle, and I wanted

0:05:46
the whole sangha to learn from this. So this is something that is both a cautionary tale, don't mess up, because on both sides there were mistakes that brought great suffering, but at the same time it's a powerful example This is a changing point for both of them. So, for a long time, Gabriel's been going through the suffering, and this is a time where his penalty becomes known. So the thing about Jyoti is this, you know, like, you guys shouldn't ask him or congratulate him or something like that. You shouldn't yell, so how's it going with your That will make him start to have impurity in his process. So if he starts to make a thing of it, then he'll make a thing of it, and then he'll enter into karma again. He'll play some game. So he'll be all like, oh yeah, I'm doing all this great stuff. Don't ask him about it. Let him go through what he's got to go through. Because that's what brings Dharma. That's what brings him out of his karma. So, it's no big deal. He's doing what will bring Dharma for him. So, don't be like, oh, hey, I'm a girl, I need some help. I need some of that $100,000 money, you know. So, don't have any expectations of him. Don't get mad when you're a gal and you don't think that he helped you right, that would just go into karma. Let him take this task, he's taken it in a very pure way and he's working on it the best he can and he'll work through it to follow these teachings. Now, he is really like working on this, like this comes from compassion. So like he's not mad or bitter, he's really coming from a place of compassion. He really has a position where he's like, I really know that I caused harm and I really want to I'm putting out his dirty laundry right now, right? But he has this, even now he has this thing where he doesn't feel angry about it or bitter about it. He's like, what's that? There's the Lojong teaching, give all victory, accept all loss. So he's really doing that. He's like, yep, I fucked up. Yep, I'm working on my dharma and I give all victory to Gabriel and I accept all loss. So he's really doing that. And that took a long time to get to because he also had his, but she, you know, it was like, takes two to tango and you know, there's like difficulties. So he had his little ego fighting back on his side. I got someone fighting on my side, it's me! You know, so let them go through this turning point, through this process, and let them come through it, and then you can observe what dharma there is. But don't get them caught up in their stories again. Let them go through what they're going through. So you don't have to pat Gabrielle on the back for being this new yoga leader and her dharma. It's just an outcome of what's appropriate for her. And for Jyoti, you don't have to I have an expectation of you now, for women." He's learning his lesson. Let him learn it the way he's learning it. He's making progress through this. And his giving of the money, he has no pushback on it. This is real selfless giving. So let him just go through what he's got to go through. Don't be like, what are you up to now? And, oh, I know this gal who could use a few bucks. And things like that. Let them do, continue in their process. It is a story that's important to share at this time, because it is the turning point. They have enough momentum, enough wisdom gained from their difficulties to move on. Yep. But I wanted to talk today about the Dharma, the Three Jewels. But before I talk about the Three Jewels, I want to talk about advanced and Bodhan students. So when you're given access to information that newer students don't have. So the things that we talk about and the things that you might learn about, they are good for you because you have enough commitment, enough rootedness in the Dharma to be able to take on some additional information, some more advanced topics. Now, if you start to teach the advanced topics to new people, they can get confused. So, if a white belt walks in to the dojo and you're trying to show them a jumping, spinning hook kick, they can just hurt themselves by trying to do it. So, when you're when you're advanced or more bow down, then there are new techniques new lessons new things that you're exposed to that are appropriate for you at your level, but not appropriate for students in these teachings with your friend, because your friend is a new student, even if they seem very excited and like, wow, I'd be really inspired to know what's going on. And you go, wow, let me tell you this thing. Sambara was talking about pink elephants or something.

0:13:23
Then they go, wow, that's so weird.

0:13:25
And maybe I was making some dharma joke about it or something, but they might not understand it. And then they can get confused. They'll be like, hmm, Sambhara says that dharma is pink elephants. And then they'll be like, I didn't read that in any other spiritual book and now I'm very confused and now I'm angry. So what we talked about in the intermediate and advanced teachings, the Bodhan and advanced teachings, these are These are teachings for you and you shouldn't share them. I remember Lakshmi was sharing a teaching from our teacher. She was like, okay, yeah. Rama was teaching this thing. And for her, totally normal and very powerful. For me too, because I, you know, I directly said, it was to the beginning students. And it's getting like flipped out, they're like, what? I don't even understand this, it's so strange, you know, like, they just couldn't understand it. So if you teach someone something that they can't understand that's too advanced for them, then they, they tend to get very confused and then unbalanced. balanced. So we want to make sure that, you know, we teach the right things for the right level. And if you've gotten exposure to that, that you don't share something that other people can't really understand. This is important for the advanced level as well. So sometimes I talk to just the advanced students. And if I'm talking to just the advanced students, you know, your Bowdoin friend who's really interested in what's going on, and if you tell your Bowdoin friend what's going on, they might get out of balance. So this has actually happened. So there's different teachings and empowerments at different levels, and even though the Bowdoins are, you know, really strong, really committed to the path, really excited and positive. There could be a certain energy in a teaching that I give an advanced student that is just not appropriate for a Bodon. So even though your Bodon friends are like, yeah, I love this, I wanna be advanced, I want enlightenment and then you share something with them and they go, oh, I'm confused too. So it's not to their benefit. So everything in its proper place at the proper time. And when we just work on what we're given, focus on it, share with people the appropriate thing at the appropriate time, then there's power and enlightenment. So, yeah, this is important because otherwise, yeah, the mind of a beginner might be way ahead of what they can handle. So, I remember Lakshmi said this cool, powerful, amazing teaching that Rama gave, and then the new students are like, oh my God, they go crazy. So we want to really support people where they're at. Not give, you know, even though it's so exciting, you don't give people too much too soon. This is also important if you're a teacher. So if you're a teacher and you're doing your introduction meditation class, be very powerful in introduction. Don't start getting out there. I know some of you love to do that. You're like, oh, let me show you some cool mysticism. And I'm like, no, no, no. They need to be very, very strong in the introduction path. And then when they get to the beginning path, they need to have all focus going to that, what they're learning in the Enlightenment workbook and the structures of the teachings. So you as a intro teacher, a beginning teacher, or if you're gonna be an intermediate teacher, you need to emote the teachings at that level. You need to be like, okay, you know, I walk into a white belt class, I'm gonna be pragmatic, make sure that people are very skilled. There's a structure that they follow to get to the next level. So you want to just be like the introduction to enlightenment. If you add to it, you're probably covering up what's useful for people. When you're doing beginning, you want to be the teachings of the beginning. And if you start to say, well, let me share with you something really cool, you're probably bringing self in that's covering up. It might dazzle them, but it's not going to give them the structured development that they need. So, when you want to add to it, you have to say, am I being egotistical? Am I getting things in the way that actually would kind of not help them? Let me really work the basics. Then when you get to the intermediate teachings, you need any level of teaching. If you're teaching Buddhist mysticism, you become that level. When you're teaching job yoga, you become that level. Yoga, that level. Bodhicitta, that level. So you have to give your all at that level, right?

0:19:21
It's important, you know?

0:19:23
It's like if you're a scuba teacher and you're like, okay, cool, you know, like it's so easy. So you take off your mask, put it back on, and whew, you know, and we go. And the person's all, take off my mask, and what? Take off my mask? And I'm like, oh, they're going through all this craziness. And you're like, you're three steps ahead of them, and they're still struggling with something very basic. Because remember, at one time when you were first learning to take off your mask, it took a little while. You had to get used to it. So when you get advanced, you have to remember how it is for a beginner. For a beginner, it takes them, their whole focus, their whole life, their whole awareness is to learn that beginning lesson. And if you're like, oh my God, it's just so easy to take my mask off now and put it back on, clear it. And they're all like, oh my gosh. And you're like, let me show you something else that's cool. I can take my whole BCD off, throw it over there. As long as I have bubbles going,

0:20:20
then I come back and put it back on.

0:20:21
Yeah, and then you're just like, they're like, oh, I'm so lost. And they think you're cool, but you're not really helping them. So you have to remember where people are at. And then you have to teach to that and recognize that, you know, when someone's learning to take their mask off for the first time, it's the biggest thing in the universe. Oh my God, right? So whatever lessons people are working on, that is where we teach to. And we don't bring in more, unless it's perfect. But be careful, make sure that you're not just doing it to look cool, to show off, that it is something that really, really, really helps them. We have good structure for them to develop through. You don't have to add advanced teachings to the intro class. Just your presence is the advanced teaching. Okay, so Saharsha, her pen name is Mu, came out with a new book. And the book is called The Three Jewels, I think, or The Three Precious Jewels, or something like that. And you should read it. It's good. So I wanted to add some commentary on it before you read it. So the Three Jewels are the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Sangha. Classic Buddhism, right? Now, so she has three chapters. Chapter on the teacher, the chapter on the teachings, and the chapter on the student, those are how she puts it. So, the chapter on the teacher is very interesting. you should read that and see things about teaching. And then the teachings chapter is also interesting. It's quite nice, has some good insights. So the cool things I like about these two chapters is that there's a lot of light in it. It's not just a book that you are reading words. These are kind of real powerful teachings. Now when it gets to the third chapter, chapter on the third jewel, she has some insight into the student. So she says, as a student, here's what you're supposed to do. And it's a lot of things about a student, an individual student. It's not a lot about a sangha. So, there's not really bringing a lot of what the third jewel is, which is an individual being in a community of spiritual individuals. So, it is some good insight in the beginning on being a student. The end of the book to me is dismal. It's not what Rama taught and it ends on a weird note, one that I don't think is very dharmic. Maybe it is for certain people. So on the end of the book, the last chapter or the last part of the book is called When to Leave Your Teacher. And this is something that this sentiment is something that has been influencing people. And it is something that it has brought confusion, even to advanced students. thing that Sahaja has seen, you know, like after the passing of Ram Rampose, she has seen certain lineages and students have certain experiences. So I think she's talking about some cases. But it is a case that she's bringing up. It's like, oh, you should leave your teacher when your vibe is different and you see your own way and things like that. And that could be filled with great egotism and great error. Because even when you're advanced, the ego then kicks in. There's the advanced ego. Sahasra even says there's the enlightened ego. So in primary enlightenment, there's the primary enlightenment ego. That's what she talks about. So where there is an advanced student, when an advanced student I'm going to do my own thing because I'm advanced and I've got to leave." Then it could be a great expression of egotistical confusion. Now, if you're in a situation where you don't have an authentic teacher, where the teacher is oppressive to you, where it's not true Dharma, then if you leave at some point, you might as a beginner gain something from it, but then if you leave at some point, then you're free from a limited structure. And if that's the case, what would happen is you would leave and then you would be extremely empowered and you'd be like, yeah, I go up a level from level, from leaving. If you leave an authentic school where you're not held back, that you're being supported properly in a real school of enlightenment, then if you leave, this is a self-spin-out. This is selfishness. And then what it does is it cuts you off from from enlightenment because you should have followed the teachings. So all of Rama's teachings were always about Sangha. All of Buddha's teachings were always about Sangha. Buddha had many enlightened students developed in the Sangha and he taught that even after his death the Sangha should go on and there will be more enlightened students for many, many years. And this was the case. In Rama's teachings, the whole time we were with Rama, Rama's teachings is like, being in Sangha is so important. And it was really hard because we had a weird Sangha. But it was like, he was like, it's very, very important. He's like, if you're out there on your own, you're like, I think he said it was like wildebeest in Africa, it's like the herd is together because there's a protection in the herd. If you leave the herd, you're easily picked off. And that means that outside of the third jewel, that dharma of the sangha, the spiritual community, if you're by yourself, you become, he says, heavy and ponderous. Actually, the I Ching says that. One becomes heavy and ponderous. But Rama said that you would become easily overlaid with the Maya because you don't have anyone balancing you out. book at the end, she has reflections on the time you should leave your teacher, which is not anything that Rama taught about or not anything that Buddha taught about. In the great traditions, there is enlightenment. And so to vote yourself off the island would be generally a mistake. Generally there are no stories of people who left Buddha and became Arhats. And for all of the enlightened students of Brahma, including Sahaja, she didn't take her own advice. She didn't sit there and say, I'm hanging out with Brahma, it's really cool. You know what? I'm got the advanced teachings and I'm going to go, hmm, well, now that I'm enlightened, let me give you ponderings. I don't know why, but maybe she saw other schools where there was not an authentic teacher, where there was limitation. Maybe, I don't know. But the things that she says at the end of the book are not what Rama taught and not what she did or any of Rama's enlightened students, or any of Buddha's enlightened students. So I think that that's a thing that it's good for Bodhans and advanced students to read. The first two chapters, I think, there's power in it. There's some good stuff about being a student in the last chapter, but it ends in a very dismal way. I was like, wow, this is, it's like bright and then it's not bright. It's just a pondering. I think it's a thing that she's just reflecting on and seeing in a lot of different spiritual schools. But it's definitely not the case here. The case here is that if you're an advanced student or intermediate or beginning, in all cases there's support for enlightenment. And if you run away from support, then you don't have the support. I don't know why someone would do that. Oh, I know why. It's called ego, the Bronx Dojo, and they were competition champions. They like won every fight that they ever went into. And then when they're at the dojo, they would spar with their sensei and he'd beat them. And then they would, I remember just talking to them and then they're like, I'm here, not because I can go out there and beat everybody else, but because I can learn from this sensei. My sensei knows more than me and I wanna know more. If I go out there and I just think, oh, I can beat everybody else, so I'm great, then I don't continue to learn. So, the sensei had a higher belt rank, had more capability, more wisdom, was a master of the art. And so when you are sitting there going, my meditation's not working so good, I know what I should do, leave. It doesn't help you. It's definitely a self-reaction. But when you hear someone like Sahaja say, when's it time to leave? When you come up with this idea, you feel like you should move on, blah, blah, blah. And then if you're not a master of going into I guess it's my time to leave." Then I think that's a place where the self has confused you. But also, like, Swahas' writings I think are confusing because she didn't do that. None of Rama's enlightened students did that. And yet she's saying, there's a time when And I'm like, huh, that's odd. Never something that Rama taught. But, I don't know, it's something that she's talking about. And she's enlightened and she's definitely fine with her point of view, but she might be talking about a lot of other things that she sees happening in the world. Her opinion of most of the things that she's seen might be that for intermediate students they should leave at some point. For beginning students they should leave. So this might be what she's observing over time from other schools. But it's not the case in this school, not at all. For you to hear an enlightened woman talk about what she'll be seeing overall for things, her thing that she sees, her insight, might not apply to you. It might actually And one thing about some of the enlightened teachers, like Sahaja or Maat, they teach once in a while, but they don't have a school of enlightenment. They don't bring people to enlightenment. They don't create the whole structure, the whole dojo. They don't want to, because it's a lot of work. But they'll share insights and books and teachings from time to time. And I have no problem with their teachings or their insights, but you have to recognize that it might, even though they're enlightened, it might not be the thing for you. So if they walk into my dojo, they can teach some techniques, but they can't bring you all the way through to your black belt because it took the whole dojo to do that. It took the location, it took the teachings, it took going through the belt rankings, it took the teacher knowing where you're at, teaching you the proper thing, you following the proper structures. And if someone comes in and goes, all you need to do is this one karate chop and you're and you're it, then you're like, okay, I'm gonna leave with the karate chop. Then you're confused. You're so confused, don't be so confused. And so it's, you know, it's easy to come in and, and see where someone's at, at a given moment in their practice and say, that's wrong, your stance isn't good, or your block isn't right, and so you should do, I learned this technique later. A lot of advanced students or enlightened students, they teach what they're going through at the moment. So an enlightened student, an enlightened being, they might be going through, you know, it's kind of like a force of nature, they might be going through this whole, you know, Kali energy, this kind of destruction, let things be destroyed so that they can be rebuilt, right? They might be going through that and everything that they see, destroy it, destroy it. And then they might come to a dojo that's going through a different process. But in their expression of enlightenment might be destroy! And then that could conflict with your development. You're like, okay, so I'm learning a certain thing and working on it, and then all of a sudden someone comes in and, whew, destroy! And you go, oh, my gosh. So the thing is that you should not be confused. So, the reason that it's really good to see Shiva, Agni Kala, Turiya, to read Sahaja's books, to talk to Maat, these are all great things. They're all enlightened and they all have dharma. But if you get confused and you say, oh wow, so something that they said is is in conflict with what Sampara said, then you, in your mind, have a conflict. You've accepted conflict. You've created conflict. Because really, when I hear what they say, and when I read what they read, I don't have any problem. I see where they're coming from. There's not a problem in my mind. I have to point out things to you guys because you're getting confused. You guys are looking at it and going, oh, they're separate. And so I go one way or the other. And I'm like, no, they're not separate. Even if Maat says, Sambara's wrong, I'm angry at Sambara. Like if she's saying things like that, I have no problem with that and I don't disagree with her at all. And she's coming from enlightenment. And I think that if you hear that and it confuses you, then you have a problem. And if me and Ma'at talk, there's no problem. If I and Zahaja talk, there's no problem. It's just that when you come to them with your confused mind and they're beyond this attachment to right and wrong, good and bad. And when they're telling you something, they're trying to shift you to see a kind of dharma. But if you get confused, that's the problem. So what you should do is, for all enlightened teachings, you should look at them and you should say, it's inspiring, there's some light in it, there's some beauty in it, and that's what I take. If, you know, if you read one of Patanjali's sutras, and he tells you, you know, to say a certain mantra and walk on water, and you decide to try to walk across a fast-moving river, you might get confused, you might not work, and then you get washed away. So don't do that, right? Read the Pantanjali and say, wow, this guy could do that, and there's a lot of light and power in that, and no way can I do that. Now if you read where he talks about flying, and you're like, oh, I'm gonna jump off a cliff and do mantra and flap my wings and see if it's gonna work, right? Don't do it. Be inspired by his teaching, and say, wow. This guy had all these powerful siddhas, and this is real, there's a power and a truth in what he's saying. And maybe if you were there at the time with him, he would have showed you how to do it. But reading it, even though there's a powerful truth to it, it's not something that is going to work for you. So therefore, you should follow the authentic teachings and structures that have developed you and that will continue to develop you in this school. If you start to pick up a spiritual book, get a different meditation, a different idea, you talk, you know, you read Sahaja, Taqta Ma'at, and you start getting different ideas, you're confused. Let go of your confusion, be inspired by all the things of enlightenment. But all these enlightened teachers, all these books that you read, they can have different powers, different insights, different teachings, different ways of doing things. Maybe, you know, putting stones to build a tower won't work for somebody, right? So, Marpa had a certain insight that it would work for Milorapa. If you watch, there's this movie called The Next Karate Kid, I really like it. It's where, after they do like three or four movies with Ralph Macchio, then like five years later, they do one called The Next Karate Kid, and it's Hilary Swank, who's the karate kid. Great actress. So at some point, he comes over to her and he's trying to get her to, you know, learn the wax on and paint the fence kind of stuff. And so he's all, okay, he's like, so, you know, I don't remember which exercise, but it's like maybe, maybe sweep the floor or something. He's like, okay. So he's like, you know, go like this, real like, and clean the wall or paint the fence or something. And she's like, huh? And she starts doing it. And he's all, yeah, but do it like this. And then so she's like, you want me to paint the fence for you? She's all, screw you. And she throws it down and walks away. And he's all, works much better on boys. So there are certain things that work, right, and there are certain things that won't work. And so what a teacher does is a teacher actually finds the things that will work for you. And so then he changed his teaching tactic and found something that would work for her. She was able to develop. Because you read it in one book, hear it from a different teacher, those things should inspire you, but they shouldn't confuse you. So if you ever get, you know, you hear Maat or Sahaja or anybody say something, oh, that goes against what Samaritan taught, and now I'm going to get confused. Don't get confused. Don't get confused. Yeah, that would be silly. I'll give you a martial arts analogy. If you're learning taekwondo, there's a lot of kicking. And then some Aikido guy teaches you a wrist lock. And then you go into a taekwondo tournament, that wrist lock is going to not be very useful. But if you get convinced that the wrist lock is the way, it's the most important thing, then it doesn't help you. It is, Aikido wrist lock, very, very powerful. But to develop yourself and you're getting your black belt when you're in a Taekwondo dojo, it doesn't actually help very much. It could be interesting and inspiring. Wow, that's a different, totally different energy art and I can see where things come together a little bit, but you've got to develop yourself in the style of the dojo that is going to work for you, not take a wrist block from aikido or a different kick from, you know, kuksu long or something like that and like try to put it into your developmental practice. So, don't get confused. So, my commentary on Sahaja's book is that it's great. I have no problem with it. It's all light to me. But I have to caution you about the end of the book because it can be confusing to you. You don't know where she's coming from. She's probably looking over time at a lot of things that have been going on with a lot of weird spiritual schools. And she's probably seen, for most people, after a couple years, move on and go somewhere else. Go on to something different. That must be it. She must be talking about something else, because she didn't do that with her authentic enlightened teacher. And that's not what he taught. That's not what Buddha taught. So it's like, you don't know exactly who she's talking to about what. But at the same time, enlightened people have different ideas as they evolve. So they might say, oh, you know, it's like, I can just take off the mask, right? And when I'm a scuba diver, it's the easiest thing in the world. So everybody shouldn't even have a teacher and just become enlightened. So an enlightened person might say something like that. Even though they went through a full training, developed themselves, got their black belt and all that stuff, they went through a certain process themselves and then they go, anybody can do it, just be enlightened. Like it's your nature, so just do it. So once someone is involved in an enlightened practice, they might be coming from that place. And then you're like, okay, I'll just do it. Did it happen? Yes. So you never know. So enlightened people are great. Be inspired by them. Don't be confused by them. Be very, very strong in your developmental structure, because it is developmental. And if you just start hearing random spiritual advice, even from an enlightened person, you might find yourself saying a mantra and jumping off a cliff and saying, I'm going my way. Yeah. And I'm going to address another weird thing that I hear from enlightened people. So, it's just the teachings of our teacher that we're in the Kali Yuga, and that the Kali Yuga gets heavier and heavier and heavier and worse and worse and worse. Darker and darker and darker. More problems, more illness, more wars, more political strife. Stuff like that. But no, that's not happening. This is the new age. This is the golden age. Don't you see it? Isn't life better? There's less pain, there's less maya. Everything's easier. So, a lot of spiritual people say that. They say that this is actually a golden age. That this is an age of Aquarius and that new higher beings are incarnating, which could be true. But that the world is getting better and that it's easier to become enlightened. And so, like Shiva says this, Sahaja says this, some people say that. And just as, I try to be very true to Rama's teachings and Rama always said that this is the Kali Yuga. He said from 1997 to 2003 there was going to be a huge shift into the Kali Yuga and that it would become much, much more physical and that that was the place where things got really, really, really more dense. And it would be a trajectory down into darkness and heaviness and that it was extremely important for us to establish ourselves on the pathway to enlightenment because if you're established on the pathway to enlightenment even though you are in hell, even though you're in a very difficult physical So, some people say this is the golden age, that this is the time where it's easy to become enlightened and all these things. And it's really not what Rama taught, but I can see their point of view. If you're established on the pathway to enlightenment, then there's such an intense contrast that you will push more energy towards liberation, because the alternative is just happiness, suffering, and pain. So maybe that's their perspective. Maybe it's their perspective that even though we are in Kali Yuga, we, our Sangha, our spiritual enlightened beings, are in a higher dimension. We're in a dimension where we can bring light, and nobody sees light. Nobody gets this transcendent illumination of spirit unless they're very connected to the divine. So, in our living, breathing awareness, we have connection with light, we have daily expressions of light, we have practices of Dharma that grow our strength in luminosity. So it's like, you know, you could say for us, it is a golden age. But generally for the world, this world that we're in where our physical bodies exist, the world got heavier, more physical, darker. I could see the actual fabric of existence getting denser and darker. If you don't remember past states of mind, the world used to be a lighter, brighter place. Things become heavier when you have the war, the endless war, terrorism, pandemic, economy, political polarization. These things become heavier, heavier, heavier. People get more confused. People don't know what's truth. They can't, you know, it's like all fake news. They don't know what's real. So it's so heavy that if you're not vigilant and focusing your attention on the Dharma, you're getting pushed down heavy by the difficulty of the world. Now, if you think, oh, it's a golden age, yeah, Sahaja says it's a golden age, so it's a golden age. Then you're like, why does it Why am I depressed? Why do I have no energy? It should be great. That's because I don't think it's a golden age. Maybe it's a golden age in your mind, but the world where our physical body exists, it's not a golden age. It's kind of like some of the ST2s talk about their insight from aliens, and they're all like, wow, they're talking about different dimensions that have, they have no real connection with this physical world. They're all like talking about conspiracies and ideas and all sorts of things that are going on. It just isn't really in this physical world. So, it's the golden age, you're out of balance. You know, someone with discrimination would, you know, someone, some Advaita person with perfect spiritual discrimination would say, you can't piss on my leg and tell It's the Golden Age. So, you got to be real about what it is, you know, and so some of the advanced students or even ST2s who go into these really occult weird awarenesses and, oh, this weird stuff's happening, and you got all just so many weird stories. It's just dimensions and dimensions and dimensions that you could focus on but doesn't really have to do with this world. So it gets back down to what Buddha taught. So Rama always taught balance of first attention and second attention. Buddha was sitting under the Buddha tree and he was going into some seriously high ecstatic states. He was higher than a ladder. And then he was like, is this real or am I just kind of like high? And he said, you know, is this just folly and illusion, these high states, what are they, you know, is there some kind of balance? And then he touches the ground. And in touching the ground, he created a connection of high states of consciousness, the highest states of all states in the world, and the physical world, and that there's a balance. So if you're tripping out in high states of consciousness and you can't cross the street without getting hit by a car, then there's something wrong. You might experience some high state of consciousness, but if it doesn't have integration and balance into the physical world, then there's something not right about it. So, an enlightened person is someone who can go into high states of mind, doesn't get stuck in lower states, can be fluid through any state, not trapped, but can move through all sorts of states. And they have a balance of any state of mind with the physical world. So, you know, you don't sit there, you don't get confused and say, oh, this is the golden age, and then everything sucks, right? And you don't sit there and go, oh, I'm in this some weird dimensions, and they affect this world, but not really. There's a missing balance. So, yeah, so a couple things going on are that, you know, some advanced students or ST2s or something, they have this, it's a new age thing going on. And that's cool, and I would accept that as it's a new age in your mind, and you could be in a golden age because you're on the pathway to enlightenment. That's a good way to see it. And then if Maat says something contradictory to me, or Sahaja says, you know what, you should leave your teacher, because he's bald and weird, then you should say, okay, so let me just accept all the light and wisdom that they have in their teachings, and then if there's something that isn't in my dojo, isn't something that's a structure of my dojo, I shouldn't trip out and get confused by it. Simple. All right, so that's what I wanted to talk to you guys about today. Don't get confused. So that's what happened to Samadhi and Arunachala. Something cut them off from all of Rama's teachings. It's like Rama always taught unity and Sangha. And so somehow they read a book or heard from Sahaja, the time to leave your teacher. And they go, yeah, sounds good. Believe that one, I'll sell you a bridge in Brooklyn. Believe that one, I'll sell you a mantra to fly. So it's like, they just hear some lofty thing and then they go, yay. And I don't say it's easy. I don't give you some lofty thing like, oh yeah, just be free. Start going like this, you're going to fly eventually. Okay, nope, it's hard work. Got to do it for real, right? And yet there's a lot of support for doing it. All right, everyone. I just also wanted to say that today is the 10th of October, and I really like October. And today is like Taiwanese Independence Day, I think.

0:58:04
Yay!

0:58:05
Oh yeah, because Taiwan was like, China is weird, let's get away from them.

0:58:10
It happened at one time.

0:58:12
Anyway, so Independence Day, woo-hoo! So thank you all very much. So thank you all very much. Be well, and I'll see you next week with more Dharma teachings.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
