0:00:00
Hello, welcome. Welcome to Satsang with Sambhara. Today we will have precious teachings of the Dharma, adventures in meditation, compassion, and enlightenment. But let's begin with meditation. So we'll sit for three songs. The first song will focus on the navel, the second song the heart, third song the third eye. Sit up nice and straight and let's begin. Oh

0:00:34
so so so So, so the the the the the the the You're not alone. Thank you. the the the the the the so So, So So So, Thank you. you the the the the the the the the the the the So So So the You So we work on developing our compassion, bodhicitta, through a structured process, a doctrine. It's called the seven points of mind training. So the tang len, the taking and sending, is part of that. It's the primary practice. But we will consider the seven points of mind training

0:05:42
to develop our compassion. So within the seven points of mind training, there are 59 slogans, and the slogans are really pithy insights to understanding the mind for developing the mind in compassion. They are, you can call it like antidotes to harmful thoughts, harmful ways of seeing life. And they express compassion in a very beautiful way. So I've already been teaching you guys these slogans, like, whichever of the two arise, be patient. That was the first one I taught. The last one was, abandon hoping for fruition. So these are these little slogans, but then there's teachings about them. Another one that adds insight can be seen and illustrated in a story. So there was like some skirmish at the border with the neighboring state, and he went over there and brought peace to the land. So yeah, Hu Ming, he also took care of the sick and who fed the poor. So Hu was a great fellow. And this one monk goes over to his master and says, look at all these things that Hu Ming does. And they said, which of the slogans describes the virtue of Hu? And then the master says, who cares? But the slogans, they add support for the two aspects of bodhicitta. So we've already talked about and practiced relative bodhicitta. And relative bodhicitta is taking and sending. This is the daily practice that we do, sitting practice, and also mindfulness practice. But there's another aspect of bodhicitta. You can get like this Ultimate Bodhicitta amulet if you do it right. So Ultimate Bodhicitta, it's essentially meditation, stopping thought. So Ultimate the I goes away and there's no individual self. And that happens in meditation. So meditation is really a great act of compassion. When you stop thought, you could say that the energy of the bodhisattvas just come through you and you become a positive influence on all beings. I know it sounds like really new age, but it's really true. When you stop thought, a very pure enlightened light comes, and it's something that affects everything, everyone. So meditation is a very powerful act of compassion. So we practice meditation not just for ourselves, but we practice compassion or meditation out of compassion for all beings. So meditation essentially is ultimate bodhicitta, but they have slogans that support it. So one slogan for supporting meditation, Ultimate Bodhicitta, is, be a child of illusion. And this means to see that this physical world we're in is not real. To see that it's kind of like to see this world as a dream. I had a student who told me about a dream that she had. In the dream, she was scared to death. She's running, running from it, running from it, and finally she wakes up and she says, Oh, wow, I'm so happy. That was just a dream. Now, the dream was ridiculous. But when she was in the dream, she thought it was real. And that's the way it is. This is ridiculous. And when you meditate, you awaken to more powerful truths. You awaken to eternal awareness. You know, Buddha said that this is the nightmare of the day. Right? And that's why it's important to really, really practice meditation so that you can awaken to a greater reality. And then once you awaken, you say, oh, wow, that was a giant purple gorilla, but it didn't mean anything. Yeah, so my teacher used to say that this is real, but it's only real for a moment, and that there are realities, eternal awareness, that lasts longer. So when your mind is in the physical world, you're caught up in just moment-by-moment experience, limited. But when you put your mind into the places, you know, like the dimensions of light and meditation, those places last longer. They're more durable. They're more real. So here we have the cycle of samsara. Samsara is life, death, rebirth. It's a cycle of limitation, a cycle of suffering. But through meditation, we can extricate ourselves from that cycle. You know, there's a software company called Samsara. I was, I saw an ad, I was with a student, I saw the ad and I'm like, why would someone name their company Samsara? And then my student said, recurring revenue. It was cute. So that's why it's important to meditate with me because you can see beyond samsara. So when we're together, I'm able to show you the way out. And I show you the way out with expressions of the dharma, with teachings, esoteric teachings, showing you the light. And then you are able to see the way out. If you can't see the way out, it's just always self-reflection.

0:22:54
I remember I was teaching

0:22:57
and I had some new people in the audience and sitting up in the front row was this grumpy guy. I was teaching, trying to be funny, talking about beautiful things, and he was just scowling. He was so funny. And then I said, OK, now I'm going to do the esoteric teaching. And then I did. And then afterwards, his eyes were wide open, his mouth was open. He's all like, I just came here to tell my girlfriend that this is a bunch of crap. And he goes, but now I see it's real. So you have to be able to find your way out of your description of the world. Because the description of the world that you've been given, you've developed, and you've made concrete, is a limitation. And through the esoteric teachings, you can see the way out. And then in your meditation, you follow that way. That's how you learn meditation. You have to break your constructed model of existence. But it has to be done in the right way. That's why there's structured teachings. And then once you see the way out, then in your meditation, you can go. You can be free. So, let's do that. Let's meditate for one song. Focus on the third eye and look up here towards me. And this is the teaching of the child of illusion, seeing through the physical world. Okay, let's begin. so

0:25:11
so So You so the the so you Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so So today we'll be discussing the first point of mind training. It's called the preliminaries. to attain liberation to help others. The intention for helping others to be enlightened even ahead of us. So our practice of Dharma, of meditation, mindfulness, of spiritual empowerment,

0:27:14
is for the enlightenment of others. So this is the Mahayana ideal. So there's the Hinayana path, which is the path of self-liberation. This is primarily what the Buddha taught. He taught, here's how you become enlightened. Do this. Push button, enlightenment. And then in the Mahayana path, that's called the Great Way. It is the Great Way because the intention is for everyone, all beings, to walk down the path to enlightenment. So we have the intent for enlightenment for others. And in the Mahayana way, with that intention, it brings a higher realization. So, Buddha's arhants, his enlightened students, were said to have had limitation. They were at a level of liberation, but not fully liberated. So in the Mahayana way, there's a higher liberation. So there's a story called the Buddha Fountain. And what happens is there's a monastery, and the monks are sitting around, and the master comes out and gives a monk a map and he says, this map leads to the Buddha fountain. And the Buddha fountain will bring you liberation. So he says, whoa, I gotta go right away. I want to get enlightened. So he goes, follows the map, and he gets to the Buddha fountain. Looks in, and he sees the Buddha. He's like, whoa, the Buddha! And then when he sees the Buddha, then he's liberated. The next day, the master goes over to another monk and hands him the map. He's like, this is the map to the Buddha fountain. And then the monk goes, alright, I gotta go get enlightened. Then he goes, but you know, I got this other monk who's like a really good friend of mine. I want him to be enlightened too. So he grabs the other guy and goes, let's go. So then they go. They both look into the Buddha fountain. They both see the Buddha. And then they become liberated. But the monk who was handed the map, who brought his friend, he was not only liberated from his personal suffering, but he also had a higher realization, the realization of the nature of the universe. him the map and says, this is the map to the Buddha fountain. And he's like, alright, well, I want all the monks to be enlightened. So he gets all of them, and he goes, come on guys, Buddha fountain. And then they all get to the Buddha fountain, and one at a time they look in, become enlightened. And then finally after they've all looked in and became enlightened, then they all looked in and saw the Buddha, became enlightened. Then finally the monk walks over, he looks in, and he only sees the reflection of himself.

0:33:56
Because he was the Buddha.

0:33:58
So when you want enlightenment for all, it brings a higher realization to you. And also a more powerful motivation. So in the preliminaries, we have to recognize enlightenment. Like in the story, we recognize that if we want enlightenment, it's good to start with someone who's enlightened and learn from them, have a connection with them, because you gain great power from that kind of a connection. So, in Bodhisitta, in the seven points of mind training, they call it guru devotion. So you sit there and pray to your guru or something like that. But in our practice, we really just respect the connection. We don't try to get something from the teacher, you know, here, give me some enlightenment, please. We respect the connection with enlightenment, but it's important because it brings a lot of power. It's something that you should do regularly. You should be like, wow, I have an enlightened teacher, I have my own personal Jesus. And therefore, because of that connection, there's light and power in my experience. I remember my teacher had one time, he just told me, you need to double your rate, double my salary." And I was like, what? I don't know if I can do that. That's crazy, that's too much. But then I said, well, he told me to do it, so I'm going to do it. This is a way of respecting that connection. Then I went into an interview, the room was filled with gold light. I was like, wow! I was like, this is amazing! It was a very high, beautiful experience. And then I was able to get the job, double my rate. So, you've got to see the magic in your life. You've got to see that you have a connection to enlightenment. It makes it more fun. It also helps. I remember there was a student who was a smoker and she couldn't stop smoking. She was just like, I'm totally, I can't stop. you know, six times, never works. And then my teacher went over to her and said, stop smoking. And then she said, okay, and then she stopped. And she's like, wow. It's a miracle. Yeah, but she respected the connection and she saw power in that connection. And so she was able to stop smoking and she was like, yeah I don't desire smoking at all anymore. So it's really amazing. Or there was another one, there was a student getting a degree in computer science and he was learning something that was difficult. And then he was talking to my teacher about it, and he said, he said, just read the book, read every word in it, don't care if you understand or not, and then you'll do fine. And so he read whatever section, didn't understand it, but then he had a test coming up. And then he went to the test, and during the test, he knew all the answers. There's just magical things when you remember you have a magical connection to enlightenment. There's another one. Another student of my teacher's. She was gay and she was coming out and she talked to her parents and her father was really mad. He was very upset. And so she was like, this is difficult. She was coming out and she was also a black woman. And she says, you know, it's tougher being gay than being black. She's like, I don't have to come out if I'm black. Mom, Dad, there's something I need to tell you. I'm black. have time with this. And then she talked to my teacher and then he said, practice compassion with your father when you're with him. So then she went and saw her father again. He was really upset and then she just listened to him complain and then she just practiced compassion. And then at the end of the conversation, he's like, okay, I'm not upset anymore. I accept you. So having that connection with an enlightened teacher is very powerful. You have to respect the connection, appreciate it, and see the magic in your life. Also, the Sangha. The Sangha is very, very, very special. The Sangha is something that we can draw upon to make our experience in life more enlightening. There was once a monk, and he had to leave the ashram, he had to go teach somewhere else or something. But then he got word that his master had passed away. So he went back to his ashram. And this is after, I think, several years. And then he sat with the Sangha, they sat in meditation, and then he was able to recognize the eternal spirit of his Master. And in that recognition, he instant enlightenment. So that came from sitting with the Sangha. The Sangha is a very precious gift. It's something that we are able to experience or be a part of, because we have a precious human life. So Buddha said, you know, this life is precious as a human. In Buddha's previous incarnation, he was a god. He was born in a heaven realm. He wanted to come down to earth, be born here, because he wanted to go for full liberation. So he said, if you're a god, then you got it too easy. You don't try too hard. Everything is very pleasurable, so then you don't need to push for enlightenment. So he said, this is the Goldilocks life form. And he says, if you're an animal, then you have too many limited karmas to be able to see enlightenment. He sangas, hippo sangas, a bunch of hippos meditating. Yeah, so in the precious human life, we have the ability to work together, to come together in an organic fellowship with people of like mind, seeking liberation. So it's a very beautiful opportunity that we have. The sangha is very good. There was a story of a Zen monk who, he got a bunch of cats, he wanted to teach them Zazen. So he gets all these cats, then he sits down to teach them, and then they start walking around. Then he's like going back, his then master, the Hawklin, was just like, teaching meditation to cats. Yeah, but the sangha is a very, very precious thing. It's very important that you respect the sangha and each other and say good things to each other and good things about each other. We have to develop our Sangha in a positive way. We have to work together as a constructive team. Because when the Sangha is created properly, it's what they call in Buddhism, the third jewel. The third jewel, the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Sangha. These are great aids. The Sangha is a great aid to your liberation. So it's important to be very, very positive about everyone in the Sangha. Even if people are struggling with difficulties, we always want to look and see the best. And if you have a hard time with someone, then do Bodhisitta. Then that's where you have to open your mind and see the bigger picture. In the Sangha especially, when you have a problem with another person, it shows you your mind. You're like, but he's mean, he said something bad to me." And you have to recognize that you're seeing something bad. That's the thing. There were people that were sitting around in Buddha's time thinking bad thoughts about him. There were people sitting around in Jesus's time thinking bad thoughts about him, getting mad about him, right? So it's like, whoa, it's like, I'm like one of those people. I have a bad outlook and that's why I see a problem. But actually this person is, they have Buddha nature, they're part of enlightenment. So when someone bothers you, you have to recognize it's a reflection of your own mind. I saw this something where they, for some reason, they put this big metal mirror in a zoo in the lion's area. And so it was like a big mirror, and then the lion, like one of the male lions, looks at it. He goes, who's that lion over there? So he's all like getting mad at it, and yelling at it, That's what we do. We have to use extra effort. You know, ask not what your Sangha could do for you, but what you can do for your Sangha. I have a cute story. So there were these girls in, I think it was high school or middle school, and there was 12 girls who were like the little clique of the cool, cool chicks, right? And what they did every morning is they went into the bathroom and then they would put on lipstick, and then they would line up, put on lipstick, and then when they're done, they would kiss the mirror because they thought it was cute. And then they would leave. OK, so then every night, the janitor would clean it up so the next day it's nice and clean for them to do it again. But the principal got annoyed. He was like, wow, they're being jerks. So he brought them into the bathroom one day, and he said, look at this big mess that you guys leave. And Sal, the janitor, always has to clean it up every day. And then he goes, okay, look, Sal, can you clean this up? Show these girls the hard work that you have to do every day. So Sal takes a toilet brush, sticks it in the toilet, goes over, cleans it up, and then the girls learn their lesson. into people just because of whatever we like to do, right? In the Shaolin temple, I like this thing. They had this big barrel full of water. So after they did their kung fu and got hot and tired, they can go over and drink some water. So what they would do is there's a drinking ladle. They would drink, and then they would fill it up again and hang it on the outside. So that it's a little easier for the next monk to get water. And then he fills it up and leaves it on the outside. but little things are helpful. So sangha is a very, very precious gift. And it's something to recognize that it might not be a forever thing. Like Buddha said, my sangha will only last 500 years. When I was with my teacher, my Sangha was strong. Everyone was a very strong professional, very impeccable, really, really strong meditators. And then when my teacher died, no more Sangha. They didn't stay together. Now they get together once a year or something like that. But not a functioning Sangha lasted. So, we have to recognize that we're gonna die. We don't know when. Sometimes we go and meditate in the Anza-Borrego Desert. The desert is this dry, arid place, but it used to be an inland sea. Everything changes. There's nothing that you can hold on to, nothing you can grasp. And say, this is forever. Not in the world of the samsara. In this world, everything changes. Everything is impermanent. Now, I like the Taoist teachings on impermanence. They teach a mastery of understanding impermanence to expose a greater Dharma. Impermanence that exposes eternity. And this is taught in the art of war is the art of deception. Deception is the mastery of impermanence. You know, it sounds funny, right? You're like, deception is Dharma, though. If you look at the Mahabharata, I love it. Krishna is going around tricking everybody into following the Dharma. He's so funny. The Bhagavad Gita is Krishna tricking Arjuna to do his Dharma. But he tricks him with beautiful truths by exposing a greater truth. So this is the same as the art of war as the art of deception. In Buddhism, we call it skillful means. In the Lotus Sutra, there's a story. There's a father, he comes to his house. And he's like, come on out, guys, the house is on fire. And they're all like doing whatever they're doing. They're all playing games or doing something. And then they're all, nah, we don't see the fire. We're okay. And he's like, no, the house is on fire. You're going to die. It's going to burn. And they're all like, nah, dad, we're cool here. And then he says, Hey, come on out. I've got the best toys out here. I've got the greatest toys. We're going to have some ice cream. He just starts saying, All the great stuff is out here. So, finally they go, Wow, I'd rather have that great stuff. So then they leave the house. The house burns down. And then they're free. And then they're all, Hey, where's all the great stuff, dad? And he's all, well, I got you out of the house. So skillful means is also the art of wars, the art of deception. The art of war also is about ending conflict. So in these Taoist practices and in skillful means, it's very important to be able to be a master of impermanence, understanding impermanence, so that you can change things, shift things, to be more powerful, so you can be more successful, so that you can see a higher truth. But there was a, long ago in China during the time of the war in states, there was a city, there was a war going on between two states, and the capital city of one of the states, it was on the sea and it had behind it these really tall mountains. So the general knew that if they would ever be attacked, it wouldn't be from the mountains because that was their barrier, it would be from the sea. So he was like, okay, luckily we have these mountains, and then if anything comes, it's coming this way. So the enemy comes one day, big Navy, and so the general brings all of his forces to face that Navy. But the opposing general had been spending the past six months teaching his army how to do mountain climbing. And so they climbed over this mountain that the other general thought was a complete barrier, and so the army was able to come in from behind, capture the city without fighting. So that's the art of deception. Now in the Navy, it was like a hundred ships, but there was like two guys on each boat, just enough to show them that we were coming. So the art of war is the art of deception. It has to be a deception that yields a greater truth, not something that is false. the enlightened way of deception. Funny story, McDonald's got sued because their quarter pounder wasn't a quarter pounder. So some guy goes to McDonald's, gets a quarter pounder, and then he pulls out a little weighing machine, and he goes, hey, that's not a quarter pound and then McDonald's says, oh it's four ounces before it's cooked. So it's a quarter pound before it's cooked and then he sues them for false advertising. I think that's funny. False advertising, not the proper kind of deception. Yeah, but then as a result, McDonald's put another quarter ounce to their quarter pounder. And now you can get your real quarter pounder. But deception in the way of the art of war is very helpful in business. There was a company called Medtronic and they made, I don't remember what, some line of medical devices that would go into hospitals. And they had a competitor, a large competitor, and the competitor had, you know, the greater share. And Medtronic, they had an engineer who could fix the machines. They had the engineer in each hospital where their machines were. And then the competitor was like, that doesn't make any sense. So they decided they wouldn't have that level of service. They said, hey, if it breaks, call us, we'll fix it. Okay, but the engineer was also trained in sales. So the engineer was promoting their sales, and then over the course of two years, Medtronic became the market leader. So this is a deception because what looked like just an engineer and a waste of money was actually a salesperson who was there all the time, selling, which gave them the advantage. Yeah, so with deception you're able to hide your power, make your power inaccessible, so people don't see it. So if you show your power all the time, then you actually become an easy target. But if you hide your power, then you're able to use it more effectively. So this is the case for Southwest Airlines. It's very interesting. Southwest came out of nowhere and made great profits. So United saw them and they said, oh I guess this is a trend, you know, this bare-bones airline. In Europe they have like EasyJet. Easy. But it's like, you know, it's like they don't give you, what do they do? They don't serve meals and things like that, it's just like the bare bones airline, boom. And so United created a bare bones offering, it was just called TED, like United, but it was just TED. So they did all the things that Southwest was doing. They said, okay, it's got to be a little bit, you know, a little bit cheaper, and we cut back on all the services and all this stuff. So they saw they saw the things that they thought Southwest Airlines was doing that made them successful, and then they ended up failing. Ted failed. Sorry, Ted. Because they didn't see the true power that Southwest Airlines had in their business model, which was to get the people on the plane fast and get up into the sky. And then when you land again, get the people off fast, get more people on fast. The turnaround time. So Southwest was focused on that. And then that way Southwest Airlines had 20% more flying time. And that's why they were able to make more money because they were able to do more flights. Now, TED, they still would like, they would like wait, they had the hub-and-spoke model, so they're like, oh there's a flight that's late, so we have to wait for the people to get on and things like that, and they didn't, they weren't able to match the turnaround, and they didn't notice that that the turnaround was the key to success. So while they were able to see what they thought were strengths, they didn't see the thing that was the most powerful. So business, in business, in your work, to have deception, not being duplicitous, but the deception that brings success. We often face opposition, but with deception you can overcome opposition. story of Halifax, which is the biggest bank in England. So first, there was Lloyds of London and Barclays. And they didn't have to do much. They were just established banks, and then people would get a bank and stick with it. And then Halifax came along, and Halifax started off as kind of like what we would call a credit union. It was just for mortgages. So all they would do is help people with a mortgage. And then Halifax opened up tons and tons of offices, and they were serving people with mortgages. Now, Barclays and Lloyds, they were like, okay, you know, that's a small business model for us. It's just one of our revenue models. And so they didn't act. And then Halifax was everywhere, and then they changed and started offering all financial products. And then by that time they had outreached to all the communities and then they quickly became the largest bank because they didn't have any opposition. Lloyd's and Barclays didn't even see them coming. And then it was too late. Boom! A Kaisersauce, all at the end. Oh no, no, no, it's not a Kaisersauce, it's a M. Night Shyamalan. recognize that life is impermanent, that the samsara is not permanent, and we see the illusion of life. And when we can come to see eternity, eternity in our mind. We can come to an awareness beyond the impermanent world. is a truth, an eternal being, the truth of our eternal being. So, while in this world, the things that we see come and go, enlightenment remains. Enlightenment was never born and will never die. Enlightenment just exists for eternity. So that's what we try to seek in our meditation. supporting meditation, seeing the eternal aspect of the mind. And it is unborn awareness. It's investigate unborn awareness. Now, this means to observe the truth of the mind is not in a physical location. You're like, where's my mind? Where's my mind? Where is it? This is what you do. You look at the mind and you say, where is the mind? Everywhere? Nowhere? In your head? In your body? When you investigate where is the mind, you find that the mind doesn't really truly have any location. And then you say, well, where did the mind come from? Then you come to recognize the mind has no origin. And if it has no origin, it has no location. It didn't start anywhere. It doesn't end anywhere. And we come to see that through reflection. So long ago in China, there was a monk named Hui Ning, and he was an illiterate woodcutter who joined the monastery, and then within a year, the master, the fifth patriarch, gave him the transmissions to be the leader of Zen. And then he said, now quick, grab your stuff and run for the hills. He's like, because these monks are going to come after you. They're going to be so... He's like, I can tell, they're going to be so pissed. So then Hui Neng runs for the hills, and then the master says, all right, I've transferred it to the sixth patriarch now. And then there was this monk, Miao, and Miao was the top monk, highly educated, was a monk for a long time, knew everything, and everyone thought he was going to be the guy. And he got super pissed off. So then he went running to the hills, he was chasing Hui Ning, and he was like, his intent was to get the transmission from him. He's all, the Master gave it to you, but I'm going to take it. I think that's so funny. Anyway, finally he caught him, and when he caught him, he saw that he was liberated, enlightened, and he was like, oh, he's like, well, I was such a fool. And then he says, oh, I was really mad, but now I see that you are the sixth patriarch. So he said, instead, can you please give me a teaching? And then Myo reflected on it, and he realized there's no face. consideration. The mind is in no location. It has always been. So he has this recognition So we seek to know the mind, and not the limited mind, not the mind that's over here or described like this or from our experience, but all, all the mind, the total mind, the one mind And to do that, we have to open up our hearts, really, to accept life. See, when we say, I like this, I don't like that, that's not the whole mind. The whole mind is big enough for what you like and what you don't like. When you say, this is good and this is bad, that's limited mind. You have to open up your mind to be able to accept what's good, or what you see as good, and also what you see as bad. The mind is this moment, and in this very moment, there are good things happening in the world. And also in this moment, there are bad things happening in the world. So when we seek to be the mind, we seek to be the moment. The moment that contains everything that's happening right now. So we're going to sit for one song.

1:14:32
so so so You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything so You're my sunshine, you're my sunshine You're my sunshine, you're my sunshine You're my sunshine, you're my sunshine You That's your true mind. of this finite world. There's a higher truth, a higher reality. To have greater awareness

1:16:38
of your Buddha nature, this eternal aspect of your being, you must practice the Dharma. The practice of karma, following karma, leads you into more illusion. So, in every moment, you have to have a consideration for the Dharma, mindfulness, compassion. In everything that you do, in your work, you follow the observations of job yoga, but also compassion. We make everything that we do a practice of the Dharma. This month, I'd like you to practice the preliminaries. When you are going to do your relative bodhicitta practice, the sitting practice of taking and sending, I want you to consider impermanence. I want you to consider that the person or the people that you're going to focus on, for Tonglen, that their suffering, though it might be great, is impermanent. It can go away. And then in taking and sending, understanding that impermanence, you have a greater power. It's the third noble truth of the Buddha, that suffering goes away. It's also impermanent. So know the truth of impermanence. Use it skillfully. Knowing that someone's suffering can go away, and then doing taking and sending is very powerful.

1:21:13
All right. All right.

1:21:14
Thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
