0:00:00
Hello, and welcome to Satsang with Sambhara. Today we will do some meditation, learn about Bodhisitta, we'll have some stories, and then we will be listening to some of the new music from India. The India album.

0:00:27
Got it.

0:00:28
All right. But let's start with meditation. So we're going to meditate for one song, focusing on the heart chakra. Sit up nice and straight.

0:00:40
And let's begin.

0:00:42
the the the the the the so so so so so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the Wonderful. So today we're going to take a deep dive into gratitude in Bodhicitta for transforming adverse conditions into the pathway of awakening.

0:04:55
And I call it a deep dive because this is where we'll face the hardest stuff. So for enlightenment, you can't just have everything easy. You have to be able to face everything in life, difficulties, hardships. You can't shy away from them or run away. You can't be, you know, put off by them. You have to accept them. And when you can accept all hardships, open your heart to all difficulties, then you're truly able to know life. If you're constantly running away saying, I don't want this, I don't like that, I don't like this person, then you don't know life. You're in self-defense mode, pushing off life. Enlightenment is accepting life and death in all things. So dealing with the hardest things, with gratitude and compassion, there's a way to transform what we call hard and bad and negative into power and light and liberation. So let's start with the easiest thing, death. So most people think death isn't so good. And we can face death with gratitude. And with gratitude we transform death. So when we think of death as bad, it's like, oh, it's a horrible thing. I cease to exist, or a loved one ceases to exist. But when you have gratitude, then it makes death beautiful, powerful, enlightening. So death is not a terrible, terrible thing. When we look at our death, we have to look at our life. So, you know, when you have gratitude in your life, when you're looking at all the wonderful things, the divine things in your life, the wonderful miracles in your life. When you see that, when you come to death, then you are grateful for your life. And when you are grateful for your life, you enter death in a beautiful way. A lot of people enter death.

0:08:27
See, we study in the advanced study,

0:08:29
we study the Bharata Thara, the Tibetan Book of the Dead.

0:08:33
And we do it,

0:08:34
we have a yoga of enlightenment at the time of death and the intermediate states between death and rebirth. And the most powerful thing that you can do as you enter the bardos, see when the physical body dies, the spirit doesn't die. Your spirit goes on. So the most powerful thing you can do at the time of death is stop thought. Go into the light, but you'll find yourself conscious and aware. And after death, your consciousness and your awareness is present. I mean, it's like you're in your house, you're with your You're on your computer. So your spirit is still there. I guarantee it. You will see. So when people are in what I call the second bardo, right after death, they very often have fears and attachments, and that's the way that they operate. And that's why ghosts hang out in haunted houses. Get out of my house! They're attached to their house.

0:10:16
Things like that.

0:10:18
So, instead of fear and attachment, we practice in our life, you know, be grateful to everyone. This is the Lojang slogan. We practice gratitude. And then in death, we have gratitude for our lives. We look at, we're a little ghost for a little while, and we look at our life, the places, the people, the things, and instead of having fear, confusion, and attachment, we have gratitude. And gratitude and love are the basis for liberation in the bardos, in the second bardo is the key. It's the key to liberation. There was a Zen teacher, and he was on his deathbed. He was ill for a long time, and two monks were tending to him, and he sat up, he was very ill, lying down, very weak, and he sat up, had them bring parchment and a quill, a brush, and he wrote on it, grateful for death, or at least I think it was grateful death. And when he wrote that, put down the brush, and he went into samadhi, he had a satori, but it was like a full enlightenment. And then he keeled over dead, died after the physical body goes into full liberation, or I mean, he's in the physical body, his spirit goes into full liberation and then the physical body doesn't matter his spirit ascended

0:12:34
to the highest

0:12:35
awareness and then he died in that state or his physical body died his spirit attained eternal liberation. So the two monks that were taking care of him, they were, you know, just regular monks, but seeing this and understanding this truth, they both went into Satori as well. They had their enlightened awakening. So, death is a way to enlightenment. So it's not a bad thing. There's a vast teaching teaching in Tibetan Buddhism on death as liberation. So, when we reflect on our death, we see more When you're aware of your death every day, moment by moment, then life is fantastic. This is what we call using death as an advisor. You're like, oh, I'm in traffic. I don't know if we have traffic anymore. You're all, oh, I'm in traffic. And then you're like, this is bad.

0:14:26
And you go, well, I could be dead.

0:14:28
There's this great salesman, I knew him in Chicago. Dharma and I used to hang out with him. His name was Tim or Ted. I always forgot. I always called him Tim and Ted. I always knew what it was. I'm like, I'm in a heist of mine, Tim. No, no, no, it's Ted. Anyway, Ted, you have to be like, to be a salesman, you have to be, you have to have, you have to be fearless. And he would always say, I ask, he's like, I always ask for the sale. ABC, always be closing. He's like, I always ask for the sale. He's all, he's like, if I ask, you know, it's uncomfortable. He's like, but is it going to kill me?

0:15:30
No.

0:15:33
Live your life, ask for the sale. Because that gives you advantage. That makes you... that helps you. That pays the bill. Ask for the sale. Good old Ted, right Tim? I'm still 50-50 about it. So, yeah. You have to reflect on death and then you see more life. And this is especially good for job yogis. It's like, you know, it's like Tim, ask for the sale. Ted, ask for the seahorse, you know, it gets us ahead. For a job yogi, when you advise your death, you say, whoa, I really need to work with impeccability. I really need to be as powerful and successful as possible right now. And even if I'm at the beginning learning, you know, computer programming or something, right? This is the most powerful thing you can do. If you advise your death and you're going to die tomorrow, then die making yourself powerful as a yogi who thought of his death as this great fortune. He was like, oh, death will be perfect. Death will be my great fortune. Because he was a job yogi. And he was also dying to get into the funeral business. So, Jav Yogis love death. There was this one Jav Yogi, he was a coal miner in Columbia. No, he wasn't a Yogi. But there was a coal miner in Columbia and there was a collapse in the coal mine and him and 17 other miners got trapped for, I don't know, like days, might have been a week or more. And, you know, they kind of gave up hope after a while. They thought they were just going to, you know, die, but they were saved. And when he came up, he was so grateful for his life. He saw that he was taking his life for granted, but he spent a week or more just realizing how precious life is and that he was facing death. And even in that moment, he should have had gratitude, but he saw how precious life is. And when he was freed, he loved life. So I saw this on TV or on an airplane or something, which we don't go on anymore. But I remember seeing him just standing with and he had a 10-year-old son. And he took his son, and they were standing out in a field, there's some trees, and he's just like looking at the sun and the sky and nature and his arms are open, and you could see that this guy was alive. Most people are like zombies, the walking dead, not knowing that they're dead. You have to be like that Zen master, right? Grateful death, the grateful dead, right? I don't know if I've heard any of their songs, but I like their name, the grateful dead. Be grateful. The Grateful Dead. Be grateful at the time of death. Life is short. You remember when you were four? Remember when you were ten? Remember when you were sixteen?

0:20:17
It's gone.

0:20:18
It's only this moment.

0:20:19
And someday, this moment will be over. And then it will be a moment of death. So this thing that we call life is short and when you know that death is going to come you take this funny lifetime that we have and all the difficulties and hardships and you have gratitude. You're grateful for it. It's wonderful. So this man goes to his doctor. The doctor does some tests. The doctor says, you're going to die. You've got six months to live. And the man goes, oh my gosh, is there anything and the doctor says, yes, there's a church. He tells him where the church is. You can go there. There's this pastor. He's 87 years old, and he does a four hour sermon every day. Go to his sermons every day. And then the man says, okay, well, is that gonna heal my illness? And the doctor says, oh no, it's not going to heal your illness at all. It's just that after those four-hour sermons, six months is going to seem like an eternity. Life is impermanent. Even if you sit there and go through those sermons. I know my Dharma talks are very boring But uh four hours I used to I used to do long talks. I used to do four hour talks Six hour talks and I didn't tell stories or tell jokes And then I met the Millennials millennials yeah so Europeans sorry you guys have to you guys have to have this format so I mean the other format is me just repeating things it's like that. It works. Yep, I'm here to please the crowd. Skillful means, whatever you need, I've got it. You want to buy some skillful means? Death. It's important to reflect on death. And also have a sense of humor. You know, there's a lot of Zen masters who have like the funny Zen death poems. They're all, And the death of a loved one, the death of a pet, these can be things where we see it all as sad and bad. Oh, I'm forever torn from someone I love. No, there's no separation. Love, love is union. And if you love someone a lot, that just exposes you to the truth of life. That love is a radical, beautiful, wonderful thing. Now, if you have attachment, you're gonna suffer. But if you have love, it shows you the truth of life. If you loved growing up, you loved your mother, you loved your father, you loved your family, you love your friends, then you have a big heart and you love and you reflect love. So love doesn't die. Love is eternal. Now when a loved one dies, then in this world, in this transient world of illusion, they go away. You don't see them again. You can't play in the maya with them. But there's no reason for suffering. There's no reason for you to have distress. In fact, you should have gratitude. When someone that you love is dead, you should have gratitude for the time you've been with

0:25:49
them.

0:25:50
It was wonderful. like a good thing, like a wonderful musical concert, right? So this person was a great being, someone that you've loved, and there was some fun wonderfulness, and they had their own special thing, like a certain band or a certain orchestra or a certain composer. And then when they're gone, you say, oh, that was a wonderful performance. And you should just appreciate it and say, that was a great performance. Do you walk out of, you know, like a great concert and say, it's over and done. I'll never have a concert again. No. You say, that was beautiful, that was really fun, that was great. So there's no reason to be shut out, to feel lessened, to feel distressed. We actually have gratitude. Gratitude and longevity.

0:27:34
Just kidding. Well that's an old movie reference.

0:27:35
Um, so, it's important when someone dies that we see the bigger picture. a loved one or anyone. You can have bodhicitta, compassion. You can do tonglen for someone after they've passed away. Just because their body has gone, their spirit still remains in some bardo. And the more you learn about the bardos, the more you're accessible to help them. But just bodhicitta, taking and sending, when someone's passed, is very, very powerful. When someone passes away and you do bodhicitta, taking and sending, you definitely are aware of them. And you definitely know where they're at. You know their mind. And you can connect with them. And they say in the teachings that when someone has passed and they're in the bardos, that their spirit is nine times more aware. So bodhicitta works nine times stronger. It does. It's very, very, very powerful. So I had a student in Hungary and his father died at a pretty early age. He was 61 and he was devastated by his father's death. And then there was a woman who came to talk to him and she had a daughter and her daughter died at the age of seven and That was pretty devastating to her She went through this profound process But then after meditating for a while she came to a realization that To that that she was fortunate and honored to be with her daughter for the seven years that she had with her. So she was grateful for that time. She didn't look at it like, oh my gosh, It should have been more. I'm so devastated because it wasn't what other people experience or whatever. She came to understand that those seven years were precious. And when she talked about this to the guy who had a father for 61 years, it gave him a different perspective. It's like, oh my gosh, my dad had this disease and he died so quickly. We all die. Let's be grateful for what we have when we're not dead. And when we're dead, let's be grateful for that You know, so, Marpa, Marpa the translator, not Marpa the FX trader. Marpa, a great teacher in Tibet. He was like sitting there, his grandson died, and he was holding his grandson's body. And he was in front of all of his monks, all of his grandson, he gave a talk about impermanence and illusion. He's like, all of this is a dream. Nothing is actually physical. It's all insubstantial. This whole life is illusion. It's maya. It's samsara. And then the next day his grandson dies and he's sitting there weeping. And then his students are like, Master, like, why are you so upset? This is an illusion just like you said. And then Martha said, like, the death of your grandson is illusion. And Martha said, my tears are also illusion.

0:33:20
A little bit of a ironic sarcasm commentary of enlightenment.

0:33:26
So, death is too easy. Let's talk about illness. Because illness gets you while you're still here. If you just die, poof! Wonderful. See, after you get the Bardo teachings, you're great I know it's a stupid time of death wonderful I'm grateful so love and then everything liberation and death is the best but what happens when you're still alive and you have illness you're sick and dirty no just sick and your physical body hurts and aches, maybe you have chronic pain. What do you do in the physical body when you have illnesses and chronic disease and monkeys on your back? do. Gratitude, compassion. The teachings of taking and sending, the teachings in Bodhisitta are teachings to help you deal with life. Death we've already done with, right? So easy. But now we're dealing with life and the hardships of life. The greatest hardships when you're alive are your physical body. I know that you get mad at people and you get bothered by circumstances, but when you're just bothered by people and circumstances, you have all the power in the universe to do something about it. But when your body shuts down, when you're ill or when you're in great pain, it's very difficult. So this is a great and important time to practice gratitude. You're like, what? Practice gratitude. Because when you have an illness or physical pain, it tends to just bring all of your focus into your body. So you could be meditating for 20 years and like, everything's cool. And the moment someone Mindfulness, that's out the door. But the moment you get a cold, or let's say a back pain, your awareness goes from this wonderful, I meditate, and everything spiritual to, whoosh, my physical body hurts. So we have to see a way out of that. and with gratitude and bodhicitta. What am I calling bodhicitta? Stop it, you Tibetans! You Tibetans are... I had a couple Tibetan monks in Bodhi Woods and they were like, why does he keep saying bodhicitta? Okay, so, when you are dealing with physical illness and physical pain, this is where you have to have strong gratitude. Gratitude for illness. So, a student of my teacher, he used to sit, he told me a story, he used to sit down to meditate and he would sit in the half lotus position on the ground, he'd put one leg on top of the other in a lot of pain. His knee would hurt and one of his ankles would hurt. And he sat there and he was like, if I sit here and I do this I feel physical pain and if you feel physical pain you're in the physical so then that hurt made him drive his focus so he'd be like I don't want to focus on my chakra. And so the more pain that there was, the more he would focus on the chakra. Until he would focus on the chakra so much, he would sit for an hour, so after 15 minutes if things start to hurt, if he just focused on what hurt, he would only be in that physical awareness of what hurt. But because it hurt, he focused more on the chakra and that became a catalyst for meditation for him. And he focused so much on the chakra that he went beyond the physical into light and brightness, into the stillness So, when you have illness or physical pain, there's a way beyond it, which is going into spirit. It gives you perspective if you go into spirit. You can be grateful for illness because it gives you perspective. I remember I was in New York, I was a monk working on Wall Street, and I remember one winter I got the flu. And I was out for a week. I could not get out of bed. And when I got better, I was on fire. I was like, I had a week of nothing and now I'm awake and I'm gonna do everything. So I had a student, or had a student, or have a student, who, I have a student who had a coronavirus. And the student, you know, was following the teachings, which is, there we go, see?

0:41:23
You guys can keep sneezing.

0:41:24
I'm just gonna thumbs up it. If you cough, that's a problem.

0:41:29
Okay.

0:41:30
So, I have a student who had COVID-19 and was following the teachings, which was, oh, I need to learn tech because I don't have a strong career. And he was, he didn't like learning tech. He just did it because I said, learn it or you're out of my school. And he's like, I guess I'll try. But he's learning it and didn't like it, didn't want to do it. And then got COVID-19 and had two weeks of difficulty. A one week period where he couldn't get out of bed, he was on his back, he was totally out, difficult breathing, fever, and then he had a full recovery. Golf clap. After he recovered, he was on fire with learning tech, or he is. So he had gained some perspective from facing a great illness. And he's young, so he knew he wasn't going to, or he was pretty sure he wasn't going to die, didn't get to the place where he had to go to the hospital or anything, but he knew he was very ill, and he was not able to do anything. And it gave him some perspective. I can be ill, unable to do anything. Or I could be healthy, and then what can I do? Everything. So he was able to experience that great, terrible illness. Great in terms of big, not in terms of good. Illness. This terrible illness. with more perspective of, oh, what I do matters. My life matters.

0:43:58
Every moment matters.

0:44:00
So then he started doing Eat Sleep Program. And that's what it takes if you wanna be successful. If you're a beginner in tech, eat, sleep, program, maybe a little exercise and meditation and bodhicitta. So you have to be very dedicated. This is what brought him to dedication, the perspective of this illness. So illness is something that gives you awareness. When you see that something can take you out, flatten you, make you just be sick, then the time where you have awareness You take advantage of it So illness is a great teacher There's speaking of a great teacher. There was a famous American teacher

0:45:23
His name is Ram Das and

0:45:26
he had a very, very intense, severe stroke. You know, he was a teacher for many years. Started off as a Harvard professor. Went to India. Found a guru. Learned many powerful teachings. And then he wrote books and brought it back to America. He was very influential in America. And he, you know, he was a good writer, good speaker. And he had a severe stroke. And he called that stroke his fierce grace. So he looked at that stroke not as a bad physical thing, but he looked at it as grace, as the divine. It was very fierce, wrathful, and intense for his body, but his spirit was very strong. There was a time after his stroke, he couldn't talk and he was in bed, but he could move. And this other spiritual guy came to visit him and he brought him a little picture, a little picture of Ramana Maharshi. And this was a great Indian saint from Thiruvannamalai of Arunachala. And Ramana Maharshi didn't talk very much. He did most of his teachings through his presence, his transmission. And he gave him, he gave Ram Dass this picture of this great enlightened saint because he's like, hey, now that you can't talk, this is a way of transmission, you know. And then Ram Dass signaled someone to bring him over a little box and he brought out this box and he pulled out a little picture, same size, a little picture of Satya Sai Baba. And then he fiddles around in the box and he pulls out a baseball trading card of Mickey Mantle. So he gives him a Satsang Papa and a Mickey Mantle for his Ramana Maharshi. Gotta have humor in illness. It's a great teacher. You know, do you know that like a lot of powerful people who get an illness then use their money and influence to help that illness? I mean, I think you've heard of these things a lot. So whatever happens to you, if it's an illness that happens to you, it strikes you, it's a teacher to you, it's something for you to work through. Just one that comes to mind, I mean in the Enlightenment workbook, we have Christopher Reeve. Like, he broke his neck, couldn't move, created a foundation. But another one that comes to mind is Michael J. Fox. Michael J. Fox, great American actor, for those of you who don't know him. And he got Parkinson's about a dozen years ago. Parkinson's is a disease that, it's like ALS. Your muscles start to lose control, eventually your heart is a muscle, and then you don't live any longer. So he's been alive for at least a dozen years with Parkinson's. And he didn't care anything about Parkinson's as this great actor growing and doing very well. And when he got it, then all of a sudden, there's the Michael J. Fox Foundation. And all of his money and attention is going into how can I help people in my similar karma? This physical disease. So, illness is a teacher. It's a natural thing. Lots of people do that. They have an illness, and then once they have an illness, they have an awareness of it, and they want to help other people in that same illness. So it's a very natural thing to occur. Illness. So, so I had this wonderful experience with a student of mine, one of my advanced students. So she had tremendous physical pain. At some point, her back went out. So she was a black belt, she was a dive master, so she had done lots of physical things and at this one point her back went out. And the doctors said, you need a surgery. Her father was a Harvard doctor and he said, you need a surgery. And then when I was hanging out with her, I was like, this is not normal you need a surgery so she had at least two surgeries like major back surgery and and and she she spent years with chronic pain and it It wasn't easy, but she did the most important thing. With any illness or any pain, you take responsibility for it. You say, I'm not a victim. I'm a participant in this experience. And she grew in so many ways in awareness and attention from dealing with all these little painful things. When you feel, if you have physical pain or an illness, if you just feel, oh, something bad is happening to me and I'm suffering, it hurts me, then you're a victim. But if you meet it, you meet it, you come to it, you join with it and say, we're going to work through this. Whether it kills you or not, then you're taking responsibility. Then you're living, you're not a victim. And this is where you can have Dharma. So she had Dharma. She learned so many lessons from paying attention to all these subtle things. And she learned, you know, through many years, how to handle it, how to take care of herself, deal with all sorts of medications, treatments, so that she could be okay and strong. And she learned about her body, she learned about healing, and now she's at a point of of strength, of capability, not in the same chronic pain. So she learned a powerful lesson of healing. So healing, pain, illness, and death. They offer us great opportunities. Opportunities of awareness. Opportunities to transcend illness and death. And opportunities for liberation. So we seek to have gratitude. You know, I remember years after her great, I mean she had great chronic pain. And then years after, when she had gone through this cycle of learning and healing, I said, if you can go all the way back to that time when you were this very active martial artist and all this great stuff and you used to dive all the time, if you can go back to that time and make a choice to be healed of your pain or to go through it again, what

0:56:00
would you do?

0:56:01
And she said, I'd go through it again. No doubt. Because that was a powerful lesson in enlightenment for her. It wasn't something horrible. It was horrible. It was painful. It was difficult. But she went into spirit, which transcends the physical. So if you're gonna experience COVID-19, when you experience it, go into spirit. If you're going to die from COVID-19, go into spirit. If you go into spirit, if you're... She was grateful for her injury. If you're grateful for your life,

0:56:47
you're grateful for your illness,

0:56:49
you're grateful for your death, you're going into spirit. And that's why we practice gratitude. So now I would like to do a one song meditation with you. This is the transmission of gratitude in bodhicitta. That brings you beyond self. It brings you beyond suffering death,

0:57:46
suffering life.

0:57:50
Suffering bad, suffering good brings you beyond suffering. You can face death and you're going to look here towards me and I want you to notice I'm going to do a transmission. This is a wonderful thing I've learned from my teacher, how to do transmissions. And it's a transmission of spiritual energy which is called, it's a Kundalini energy and it's the expression of it which is Shakti. Shakti is that refined spiritual energy expressed out and time and space don't matter and so I want you to just be able to look at me, you should notice everything in your world becomes bright. There should be light. Now I got lots of lights right here, but I got more light in here. So I'm going to transmit this refined spiritual energy, the Kundalini, through Shakti, the expression of it. And I do it in forms, structures, in the second attention, ways, spirit, constructs that I've learned from my teacher. And so when I transmit this, every time I do a transmission, there are structures of this Kundalini energy. It's energy. In Kung Fu, I learned energy. Tai Chi, energy. Karate, nothing. Just like that. So there is energy, and I want you to be aware of it. So it's going to be very simple. Meditate for one song, soft focus, a little focus on the third eye, and just look here. And then you'll notice light. All right, so sit up nice and straight, bring the focus to the third eye, and we'll sit for one song. Let's begin.

1:00:51
and we'll sit for one song. Let's begin.

1:00:54
Oh, the the so You You Wonderful.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
