0:00:00
Welcome this evening. You guys are I think nine o'clock in the morning. But as you can see here in sunny California, it's still, thank you. Here in sunny California, it's still day time. It's not even noon yet. So I wanted to, this is the Eurocast. So this is Reykjavik and Paris, Munich, Vienna, Budapest. So I wanted to be able to address all of my European students, meditate with you. And I wanted to give you guys an opportunity to ask questions today. And also I have a special teaching for most of you. It's a brand new teaching. So I would like to begin with meditation and we will sit for three songs. And Bodhi, you got the music?

0:01:16
Okay.

0:01:16
All right, so we're gonna sit for three songs. So one song on the navel, one song on the heart, one song on the third eye. All right. Sit up nice and straight, and let's begin.

0:01:29
I'm going to be doing a lot of this stuff in the future. Thank you. the the the the So, So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Thank you.. you so I'm going to be a good boy. so so so So the the the Thank you. the the the the Thank you. the the the So you You So I'd like to talk today to you about the third point of mind training.

0:15:19
Transforming adverse conditions into the pathway of awakening. This is what we gotta do. There's a powerful dharma in doing this. to the roots of the European teachings. So I was teaching in California, in San Francisco. I had a meditation center, lots of students here, everything was going wonderfully well. And then we had this thing called 9-11, and this shocked the nation. Everyone was in a state, an altered state of consciousness. They couldn't believe it, what happened. And I realized that this is a time of dharma, adversity. Bad things happen. Bad things were terrible at the time. But I realized there was a, we call it the centimeter of chance. an opening for Dharma, even in adversity. So I recognized that.

0:16:52
The moment that they opened the airways, again,

0:16:57
when you can fly, the first day that you could take a flight, I took a flight to New York. So I had lived in New York, I had done yoga in New York, I worked in New York. So I knew New York and I knew New Yorkers. And I, after 9-11, wanted to go and teach meditation in New York. So after 9-11, the New Yorkers were very shaken, shaken and awakened. And I taught meditation. One of my students in New York was a student now named Kali. And Kali, she is Hungarian. So she ended up moving to California, joining Sangha over here. And when the economy got bad over in Silicon Valley, we moved to Hawaii. So I had my whole sanga move to Honolulu and we had a wonderful time, although the rest of the country had a difficult time. So by talking to Kali, finding out a little bit more about Hungry, and then her brother and her mother came to visit us in Hawaii, the other side of the world, and then they both became students. me to Hungary. And I came and taught in Budapest. And when I came to Budapest, well, when I was contemplating coming to Budapest, I agreed to come, and then I was like, wow, you know, Tibet or China or something, and he came and sat in front of me, and I had one night to see him, then he goes back to his country and I can't just show up once. So I said, but I was very busy in my teaching schedule in America. So I said, you know what I need to do? I need to write a book, the Enlightenment Workbook for the Europeans, so that when I I go and see them, I can give them something to work on for six months, or for some of you, a year. So I created the Enlightenment Workbook for Europe. I mean, the Americans use it too. My American students use the Enlightenment Workbook. But I created it because, you know, I knew that the power and impact that I have on people, the teachings are strong, and if I don't give someone enough support, they'll have a powerful experience and then they'll be be kind of like spiritually destitute. So I wrote the Enlightenment Workbook

0:21:20
originally for Budapest.

0:21:26
So this is something powerful. Because of 9-11. 9-11 was a horrible terrorist attack on the United States. And because of that, I faced that adversity with Dharma. And I went right to New York, as soon as I could, to teach. And the Dharma that unfolded was to meet a colleague, a student from Hungary, to learn about Hungary, to be invited to Hungary,

0:22:08
to teach in Hungary.

0:22:09
And because of that, I wrote a book

0:22:12
that supports the Dharma strongly for students

0:22:16
who are not with me, but also for students who are with me. I'm an esoteric teacher. My books are magical. So in the face of adversity, we need to draw greater dharma. And we can. When things are hard,

0:22:55
we have to come into spirit more.

0:22:57
That's the only answer. When you're physically sick, when you're going to die, when someone else, a loved one died or something,

0:23:14
you have to draw deep into spirit.

0:23:17
And then you'll understand. Then everything will be at peace and okay. If you don't draw into spirit, you're stuck in the world of karma. And you suffer. Not fun.

0:23:37
Spirit is the way through.

0:23:41
So I've been teaching in Budapest since 2005. We have a very strong spiritual community, the Sangha in Budapest. And then I was saying for years to my students, I'm like, I have students in Germany, in Munich and in Vienna. I mean, I know Vienna is not in Germany. Most Americans don't know that. But no, I knew that I had students in Vienna and Munich. And I was saying that for years. But I said, oh, so much work. Do you know how much work it is for me? I don't just do outward work where I just show up for a day. I do a whole second attention infrastructure of work to align a place with Dharma. So for many years, for about at least 10 years, I was talking about, oh yes, I have students in Munich, in Vienna. And I'm like, oh no, no, no, no, no. It's just too much work. I can't take it on at this time. And yet, eventually I did. I realized that if I don't do it now, it's not going to happen. Enlightenment won't make its spark, and the people who need to be illuminated won't be illuminated. So I said, I gotta do it.

0:25:41
Is it easy for me? No.

0:25:44
But it's what is needed.

0:25:48
So I follow the Dharma.

0:25:50
So I decided I'm going to teach in Munich in Vienna. And then I went on a pilgrimage to Rishikesh, India. That's North India in the foothills of the Himalayas. And I was meditating by the Ganga, the Ganga G's, the Ganga River, this holy river. And then Rishikesh gets a place where many sadhus, many saints, many enlightened beings meditated by this river. And their energy just vibrates. This beautiful energy So, I sat there by the river meditating and it was a very beautiful, pristine meditation. After the meditation, I opened my eyes to look at the water flowing down the river and And I heard a voice, and the voice was very clear, and it was a very elevated voice. It was a voice of an ancient saint or a Buddha, a god, an angel. It was a very, very, very high voice. And this voice said to me, teach in Paris. And I was like, what? Why would I teach in Paris? They're just into cheese and wine. Ah ha ha ha. Okay, inside joke. That's an inside joke. But I am... After teaching in Budapest, on my way back to America, I would always fly to Paris and I would just enjoy it. I really love Paris. It's a beautiful city. I think I love it. It's my favorite city in the world. I've been to a few cities. Um, so I was like, I go to Paris a lot. On my way back from Hungary, I stopped off at Paris a lot. So I was like, couldn't I offer at least one or two nights when I'm there? The Parisians? I'm like, sure I can. So I'm sitting at the Ganga, meditating, going into Nirvana, and then this voice says, teach in Paris. And I'm like, how do you even know there was a Paris? You're Indian from a thousand years ago. Well, I guess they knew there was a Paris. And that's where the Parisian Dharma started. Because for me, Paris was all about eating duck and drinking French wine. And then this Dharma started because I was sitting at the Ganga. And I'm happy about that. It's a very, very, very beautiful thing. So, I really love my French students. They're amazing. And I'm very happy about the enfoldment of the Dharma. Which gets us to Iceland. So I have this one student who was, I think he was a king, a king of like, I think he was a very, very, very, very powerful Nordic leader and he definitely went to Iceland. He didn't discover it, but he went there and he had a powerful influence on Iceland. That Icelander's all, that guy, Dharma? And so I went, he told me about Iceland, like, he had very powerful spiritual experiences there. And, and he was born in like the East Coast, like New York. And then he would go there and he had some friends and he had these amazing experiences and past life awarenesses that were really intense. And I said, yeah, you were like a Viking or whatever. And he's like, oh, okay. So he was telling me about the beauty of Iceland when I first met him in 2001, I think. And eventually I went with him to Iceland. We went scuba diving in Iceland, the North Coast, in Aquamary. And that's pretty intense. Scuba diving in Iceland.

0:32:16
It's really cool.

0:32:17
Did you guys read Mystic Scuba?

0:32:18
If you didn't read Mystic Scuba, read it.

0:32:19
It's a power trip of mysticism and scuba diving. Okay, so we're in Iceland. And I was like, wow, this is just such a sublime place. Iceland, Icelanders, you don't know how well you have it, or maybe you do. It's a low population. It's far away from high populations. And the land has power and energy. There's places of power in Iceland. And Europe is pretty much lined out. Too many people, they've been there too long. They found all the good places and they took all the energy from it. Iceland still has places of power. So I brought all of my students from Europe a couple years ago to Iceland. So all the Hungarians came. All the Americans came. And some people from other places who were around a couple years ago came too. And we had this big, you know, universal sangha. I mean I have students in India too. They didn't show up. But we brought mostly the Maha Sangha, our group together. And Iceland is a beautiful place to do it because there's just rolling hills of grass and green and open sky and open ocean. What a beautiful place. So we found these wonderful places to meditate, to be together. Odin's Horseshoe, some of you know that, um, strong place power. And Iceland is magical. So after our sangha went there, and we had powerful meditations as a maha sangha, then, uh, Dharma, my Viking friend, king of Sweden, I think it's Sweden, he stayed. And he stays there a lot, like he goes there for like a month at a time, you know, a couple

0:35:08
times a year.

0:35:11
And then he said, hey, I have this idea. He's like, what if I teach meditation here and see how that goes? And I said, all right, good for you. This is a transformation of just karma. You want to be there because you have karma there to you want to bring the Dharma there. And so Dharma went and he taught and he had an explosive experience of Dharma, of energy, of enlightenment. Good job, Dharma. We can teach. We can teach in Iceland too. So now, when I come to Europe, Iceland is my first stop.

0:36:07
And I love that Iceland is.

0:36:09
What a beautiful place. Reykjavik is the biggest city, the capital city, but it is such good energy. Such good energy. The Icelanders are very in touch with the land. The energy of the land. The energy of the place. There are In America, we have the Native Americans, right? The Indian, Native American Indians. But not the ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, but the woo, woo, woo, woo, woo, woo, just to get you guys straight. And both, so I can say that. So, the Icelanders are very in touch with the land. They feel like there's a very strong awareness in their assemblage point, connected to the energy of the land, the weather, the space and the place. And in the rest of Europe, we don't have that anymore, sorry. In America, forget it. Unless you're in Navajo. The Icelanders, as a culture, are aware and awake. In Hawaii, there's also people who are aware and awake as much as in Iceland. the energy of the place, the weather, they know the local gods. Highlanders might not know the local gods as much. Where's Thor these days? He shows up usually after Wednesday. Anyway,

0:38:18
what I'd like to say is, Hi! It's good to see you. I'm Sambara.

0:38:39
I'm an esoteric spiritual teacher, and I could offer you insight.

0:38:51
So, we're here together

0:38:54
in a connection that is

0:38:57
elevating.

0:38:57
Even if there's difficulty, we're elevating together. We're together and in being together, we're stronger. And we're elevating. So this teaching is a teaching not only of the physical awareness, but also of spirit. Spirit, something deeper, something deeper than the physical world.

0:39:45
We're in the physical world, I'm in the physical world.

0:39:48
I know I'm showing up on your computer screen, but I'm all, oh, physical world. Things are physical, but things are also spirit. And when we come from the point of spirit, this is the point where we come to the greatest truth of ourselves. And in spirit, we have to recognize that there's sadness and there's badness. There's death, illness, old age, ugly people. I don't know. The good, the bad, the ugly. And just cut out the good, the bad, and the ugly. Right? So there's all sorts of difficulty and hardship in our lives and our world. when we can face the great difficulties of the world, of life. If we can face it with a spiritual awareness of fortitude, that is transforming adversity into the pathway of awakening. What's your trouble? What's your hardship? Did you lose a job? Did you catch the coronavirus? Is there a relationship problem? All these things can be transformed into the pathway of awakening. Do you remember the last satsang where I taught about the death of Lao Tao's mother? It's not something to mourn over, to be sad about. We're all going to die.

0:42:31
It's like a baby's born. Yay, there's a little baby.

0:42:33
We're happy.

0:42:34
Someone dies.

0:42:35
Oh, we're sad.

0:42:36
Death and life are the way that things are. Actually, why not celebrate life? Look at all the good in one's life. Don't be sad that they're gone.

0:42:53
Look at the good.

0:42:55
Be happy about the good. So,

0:43:01
you gotta see things in a positive perspective. That's why I'm here. I'm very positive. I face a lot of adversity myself, but I'm very positive. And when I face adversity, I always look for the Dharma. And that's how Europe started. Otherwise I could just be sitting here in California enlightening people. But but I want to enlighten you. I have advanced students in America now, students who have been studying with me for 20 years.

0:43:34
I have enlightened students,

0:43:36
students who are going into the advanced states of consciousness, the Samadhis. And I'm like, okay, I know this works. Just like I can train someone in martial arts to learn the art, to be powerful, to gain power and strength, to get a black belt, to be strong. Of course I can train someone in martial arts to gain power, to go from a place of white belt to black belt, to the ability to defend their lives. Of course I can train them in that. I've done this since I was six years old. I'm a seventh degree black belt. I have many black belts. And in spirituality, I can train you. Modern training. Focus, meditation, compassion, mindfulness. These are the ways for enlightenment. It really works. Now, I grew up in an inner city place in San Francisco, a bad neighborhood. So I grew up in a bad neighborhood. Lots of gangs, all that stuff going around. It's very unlikely that I would become enlightened. And when I first learned meditation, it was very difficult for me. I wasn't good at it. But if you work on this, just like if you go to a karate dojo, if you work on it, you will eventually go up a rank, up a next level, new color belt, you'll eventually get to your

0:45:57
black belt.

0:45:58
disciplined art, but if you focus on this, if you work on this, you'll get higher. You'll get stronger. So this is the third point. training. Why would someone go to a karate dojo? Right? They're going because they want to be able to defend themselves against what could happen to them in the world. You go

0:46:37
The adverse conditions.

0:46:41
Someone on the school grounds might punch you. Someone while you're walking down the street might wanna steal your purse. Those are adverse conditions. Martial arts is a defense. It's like mind training. It's the defense against adverse conditions. So we learn these techniques of compassion. Martial arts is compassion too. Someone wants to hurt you, put them down. You don't have to hurt them, but you don't let them hurt you. adverse conditions into the pathway of enlightenment. This is our practice. This is our martial art. Someone attacks us. Someone thinks bad, some bad thing. Life, life gives us a hard time. I saw this really cute thing. Someone sent me this thing. God, God, well, whatever God. God gives us hardships, but God gives as much as you can handle. And then, dot dot dot, I guess God thinks I'm a total badass and I can handle anything. God's giving me a lot. And that's a cute thing. Everything happens. And what we have to do, focusing on, you know, self. Everything is within you. You can handle anything. Self-reliance. Anything that the universe throws at you or like God throws at you to test you or whatever, anything that the universe gives you, you can handle it. You can handle life, you can handle death and everything in between. You will handle life and you will handle death. So be ready for everything in between. This is advising your gut.

0:50:04
So, the third point of mind training

0:50:07
is looking at the difficult things in life, changing, transforming the adversity into enlightenment.

0:50:26
The pathway to awakening. What's hard for you right now?

0:50:30
My friends, what's hard for you? Oh, there we go. What's hard for you right now? What hurts? What's difficult? Relationships? People? relationships, people. For most of you, it's relationships and people. It's not, I'm stuck in my apartment. It's dealing with other people. Let it go. Do Tonglen, taking and sending. Don't have problems with other people. Don't have problems with your mom, your boyfriend.

0:51:26
Like, let it go.

0:51:31
Look at where we're at. Have some perspective. We're in a place where we're struggling. We're having a hard time. Don't personalize it and ego it to be a problem. You do this thing to me, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.

0:51:55
Come on, stop it.

0:51:57
Have some perspective. Be a Buddhist. Don't be attached. Like I said in the last Satsang, consider this time a time of retreat. It's a spiritual retreat. You don't have to be in your ego, Be free from that.

0:52:21
Let that go.

0:52:22
Let all your arguments go.

0:52:23
It's not an, it's not the normal world.

0:52:26
It doesn't have to work out the way that you used to think it should work out.

0:52:29
Give people a break.

0:52:31
Be a Buddhist.

0:52:32
Give everyone else a break. That's, that's Tonglen. That's Tonglen, that's Bodhisitta. So I know this is a tough time. We're in a time of adversity. The coronavirus. You're difficult. It's worse than taxes. Who invented taxes? You know, I remember back in the earlier ages, you know, we're in the Kali Yuga right now, but I remember back in the earlier ages, there was nothing called the taxes. Taxes happened as a result of the Kali Yuga. So we're in this, I think I've talked about this several times, we're in this age, it's like the winter of a loka. A loka means a universe. And if you're not savvy, there's been many universes. Many universes. And so we live in this time, we live in this world. This is an age. Buddha even talked about this time. He's like, you know, Buddha was like, oh my gosh, he's like, this is the Kali Yuga. It's horrible. He's like, but you can still become enlightened. And the Kali Yuga is like, there's four seasons seasons to a universe. There's the spring, the golden age, the silver age. You know, so there's ages that get like this beautiful time and then you get to the end of it and it's the winter. This is the winter of the world, the winter of our existence. Not a time to be weak, but in the winter it makes you strong. It freezes most people, but for the ones who are strong and awake, we can

0:55:05
We have to be awakened in a difficult time. I mean, look at the difficult time.

0:55:13
We have the coronavirus, CPP-19. This is something that we need to be careful and awake and aware. And something that's difficult, something in adversity, doesn't have to hurt us. Something that's difficult is something that we can awaken from. So I have a student, she is, I call her four foot ten and I was teaching this other guy who was, I guess, to me, much taller, big and strong. And in the martial arts dojo, she was super small to me and he was super tall to me. She was skinny and weak, he was big and strong muscles. so afraid and so, like, worried because she was so small compared to some, a normal person has reach and they're punching, kick, but then this big guy. So she would fight with this big guy and she was able to fight him and she she created the best defense and then when she found an opening on him she would just come in with so much more power and she could beat him. Now him because he's big and strong and fast and whatever physical he didn't develop his technique. So when it came to the martial arts test, she passed the test, he didn't pass the test.

0:58:09
And that's what we gotta do. Little by little, step by step,

0:58:13
probably he could still beat her up at that point, because he's bigger and stronger. But eventually, that inner study of technique goes way beyond where the physical can go. That's why you find the tiny little tiny master of Tai Chi and that master can knock you down. My master, my Buddhist master, he had that ability. He had this ability to just take, he would only do it with black belts. So we're focusing on that inner side, whether you're small or tall. If you're tall and strong, forget about tall and strong. It's all about that inner development. So I'd like you to have an understanding that we're in a time of difficulty, adversity, hardship. But if we turn inward, if we bring our awareness not in the world of fear, understanding but bring it inside, we can find tremendous resources and great powers that relieve us from the world, that liberate us from the struggles of the world. It's true and it's for real. So this is a tough incarnation, a difficult time, but we can make of it a But businesses do this. Like Dyson. Dyson is a company that makes mostly vacuum machines to clean your carpet.

1:00:51
They also make hand dryers in the airports.

1:00:55
So Dyson, facing this trouble, instead of just freaking out and saying, oh my gosh, our vacuum machine sales are going down, they decided to create ventilation machines, medical Throughout the United States, like, this country should have had it together, but they didn't. And they don't have enough ventilation machines to save lives. And Dyson went from vacuum cleaners to ventilation machines to save lives. And their vacuum cleaner sales are down, but their ventilation, medical ventilation machines are up.

1:02:18
So a company can shift

1:02:26
from being like, hmm, you know, there's a lot of vacuum cleaners on the market, to how do you turn a vacuum to a succume? Wait, I mean, that's not a succume. But they took that technology of suck from yin to yang.

1:02:45
to Yang.

1:02:46
Whoosh! And they, they, I mean they had, they had, they had the suck, so they had the blow. And that's what you get on East Broadway, Manhattan. We got Broadway in town, let's just go to.

1:03:12
You got a suck and a blow. It's very contract. This is my deadpan face.

1:03:13
This great time of transformation. They're like, why are we gonna go our whole business from vacuum cleaners to ventilators?

1:03:26
And how can you do that?

1:03:27
Just the ability, the business acumen, the ability to change and transform.

1:03:35
Wow, wonderful.

1:03:36
The ability to change and transform. Wow, wonderful.

1:03:40
Isn't it great?

1:03:42
Oh, another one that I like very much. So here in the Bay Area, we have a tequila company. It's a tequila company that makes tequila. And tequila is a hard liquor. You guys might know it. What do you call it there? It's like a really bad one. Anyway, there's tequila here and there's one in the Bay Area called Tito's. Tito's Tequila, and they've just been selling tequila. Now that there's this outbreak of the coronavirus, they stopped production of tequila and they started to create antibacterial gel for the hands. They went from selling tequila to selling hand sanitizer. Isn't it amazing? They're like, um, we can make alcohol. We're gonna make alcohol that heals instead of just makes you feel jolly. So this is a time where even in business there can be transformation. General Motors that makes cars. They're making ventilators now. They're like, oh yeah, we have some of those in our cars. They ventilate the air that comes in. So they take that little part and they say, we're gonna make just that ventilator part. We know how to do it. So businesses are shifting and changing. And it also brings out for us a view of the world. When you see businesses doing this, there's a restaurant in San Francisco, Bistro SF. And they were a restaurant that charges like $30 per entree. And now they're offering lunches and dinner packages for takeout that are $5. They're like, this is the minimum we can offer this at, and we're losing money. And the chefs are voluntary. And there's like a $5 amazing dinner. So people are coming together and offering the best they can give each other. I read an article today about a group in a really bad neighborhood in San Francisco. It's called the Tenderloin. It's an area, it's a neighborhood. No houses, just apartment buildings and also bad neighborhood. Crime, drugs, it's just a bad place. And the young people who live there, they just decided to get together just on their own. And there's lots of, in this crime-ridden area, there's lots of old people who live in these apartments. And they're like, they know the community. And so they go, they all know where's the old couple. They knock on their door and say, we can shop for you.

1:08:35
You don't have to go out.

1:08:36
So the young people come, they have their masks on.

1:08:40
I was gonna do that.

1:08:41
Here, look, I have one of these.

1:08:42
I was gonna show up like this today. Hi, I'm happy to meet you. I just don't want to catch your coronavirus.

1:08:55
But guess what? The wonderful thing is, we're figuring out this Zoom.

1:08:59
We're going to get better at it. So, now there's these groups of people who are helping. And I'd like you to think about that too. I'd like you to think about how can you help? There's these companies that are making these shifts for a tequila company's making hand sanitizer, right? There's the companies that are making better ventilators, Dyson. Like, the places where we need things, that's what we have to offer.

1:09:41
And as Buddhists, we have to offer compassion to the world.

1:09:47
The world is afraid. is a business to make a shift, a pivot, a change. To, I gotta make a product that's gonna help the world. Every business should be thinking that right now. Instead of thinking, oh, my business model doesn't work. Oh, I'm going out of business, I'm losing money. Well, then shift and change and pivot. I don't care what you are, help the world. And as a Buddhist, we have to help the world. Whoever you are, wherever you are, whatever you're doing, we have to help the world. Right? What are we doing? If we help the world in all spirit, we help the world. If we help the world in our tonglen, our taking, there's so much fear, so much suffering. And if we bring light, brightness, it makes it better. Make it better for you in your meditation, in your bodhicitta, an endeavor to make it better for everyone. And if you do that, it makes a better fruit. You spread light in a hard time, in a difficult time. This is the truth, ancient and inexhaustible. Bring light to all. Bring light to everyone. Bring light in your heart, in your mind, in your meditation, in your Tonglen, in your Bodhisitta. Bring light. So there's companies that are shifting their business models. I love it and they're doing things that are great. And there's people that are doing things that are great. For a lot of my American students, it's a wake up call. I've been teaching, so a lot of my new American students. So during the 2008 Great Recession in America, I had students for many years. So I had 100 students for many years and when the Great Recession happened, none of my students lost their jobs. The recession hit, but all of my students were strong in their career. They were job yogis.

1:12:44
Very strong.

1:12:47
that huge difficulty in the recession of the coronavirus. And I have a couple hundred more new American students and they've been hanging out kind of like you European students. They've been learning, you know, about job yoga and they're all, job yoga sounds cool, learning about compassion sounds cool. But this has been a very awakening moment. So when difficulty happens, it also wakes you up. So like I had this one student who, she wanted to be an actress. She wants to be a movie star. I'm like, yeah that happens. That's a dreamer. That's a beautiful thing of a dreamer to dream the biggest dream and it's a very American dream. Oh, I want to be an actress, movie star. And I'm like, oh wow, that's really beautiful. But it's not realistic. Like, if you just look at if you become a computer programmer, there's a lot of opportunity. If you become an actor, there's not a lot of opportunity.

1:14:10
And so like not a lot of

1:14:12
opportunity. So, you know, so when my students want to be actors, I tell them, you know, it's really hard. And like, why don't you do something that is actually more pragmatic? And then they go, but I really want to be a movie star.

1:14:33
Okay, cool.

1:14:33
Anyway, so this one student who really wanted to be a movie star and her father paid her rent, paid for her food, took care of everything. And the coronavirus came and wiped out his business.

1:14:47
He can't open his business.

1:14:48
He can't support her. And she's 35 and still wants to be a movie star. And then she just kind of like snapped out of it, woke up and decided that she needs to create a profession

1:15:02
that she can actually do.

1:15:04
Because her father can't support her anymore. See that's the way it works. You gotta wake up. You can't be just you know held up. You have to be responsible for yourself. Self-reliant. Her father was paying her life since she was an adult. Just because, oh, daddy's little girl, keeping her in an illusion. Or there was another student, another gal, and she was working at Starbucks, and she was taking our technology classes. We have the Golden State Institute of Technology. So I teach most of my students in America technology if they want.

1:16:07
But she was working at Starbucks, she took some classes

1:16:10
and she was like, huh, I learned a little bit. She didn't get any jobs. And then the coronavirus hit and then she got, and then Starbucks closed, but she didn't have a job or income. And then she got seriously focused on technology. And then I just got an email from her today where she had spent two years kind of like learning technology and not getting a job and still working at Starbucks. And then after the coronavirus hit, she lost her job. She didn't have any income. And then she was able to get on Friday a job. She focused, she woke up, she put her mind into it, and she is now a computer programmer at Apple. So this is a time when you face adversity, a time to wake up, a time to focus on what really matters. And you know, do this thing. When you go out to shop, wash your hands. Focus, don't get near people.

1:17:48
You know, stay away.

1:17:50
Wash your hands, don't touch your face. Like, first attention, be careful, be clear. Don't touch your face. Like, first attention, be careful, be clear. Be careful about who comes into your house. Be careful, be aware. Because 90% of how you're gonna catch the coronavirus is gonna be from you picking up a germ and touching your face. So be mindful of that. And be aware that there's opportunities, even when things, when the economies are shutting down, where are the economies opening up? Maybe if you're a waiter at a restaurant, you don't have a student who was very, very smart. When they saw what was happening in China, they said, and then Korea, they said, this is gonna happen everywhere. And my student made a connection with a Chinese manufacturing plant that made the N95 masks and started selling them. There's opportunity. Dyson, vacuum cleaners, ventilators, right? GM, they're like, yeah, we know how to make air conditioning units in a car. Ventilators. Tito's vodka, hand sanitizer, there's ways to make a shift in whatever you're doing to be successful in this time. Don't be a victim. Don't be a victim. You can be high. So I'd like to teach you all an important teaching I think for this time and it's a teaching called the Medicine Buddha. So I've taught my students and friends the Medicine Buddha, but I haven't taught the Medicine Buddha anywhere else. So I'd like to teach the Medicine Buddha to all of you. The Medicine Buddha is a teaching of healing and healing is very powerful now. If you have healing strong in your being, you radiate an energy, a spiritual energy that can save lives. Not just you, but your country, your city, your community, your family The the medicine Buddha is a spiritual energy of healing and

1:21:19
it has both

1:21:21
small effects For you big effects for you. It also has small effects for the world or big effects for the world it is a very powerful and intense teaching. It's very Dharma. When you do the Medicine Buddha, the Dharma expresses for you. And it might be in miraculous ways, and it might be the Dharma. The Dharma sometimes shows you what you need to learn. But also what you need to learn is also miraculous.

1:22:10
So the Dharma, the Medicine Buddha.

1:22:20
for healing and help. When you're ill, it brings relief, it brings healing. When you're not ill, it keeps you safe, it keeps you free from illness. So the Medicine Buddha is a very powerful dharma. My enlightened teacher was a great healer. My teacher was a great healer. Whenever any student of his had illness,

1:23:09
he would heal it,

1:23:12
and heal it very quickly. So I remember when I first became a student, one of my older students, she one day woke up where half of her face was numb. And she couldn't feel it. And she's like, what is it? And my teacher said to her, you have a brain cancer. And he said, you need to look into it, go to the right doctors. So she had the MRI and all this stuff, and she had this inoperable malignant brain tumor. And he said, OK. He's like, in four days, you will feel your face come back and in six months the brain tumor will disappear and to the surprise of the doctors that happened they would not believe they had no idea that that could happen the doctors observed over six months this thing go from you're going to be free. So healing is possible. Anyone that you know of who is suffering from the coronavirus, healing is completely possible. Believe in healing. The body can heal, the aura can heal, everything can heal. So believe in that, because that's the truth. When you align yourself with that, then there's healing. Healing is a great truth of being. So I'm going to teach you the Medicine Buddha. And the Medicine Buddha is a spiritual and Lenten practice of bringing enlightened healing to yourself and to others. We focus on ourselves. If we can be the Medicine Buddha, if we can have the energy of the Medicine Buddha, then to our whole community, our family, our community, our friends, enlightened to all, to our country,

1:25:43
to the world.

1:25:45
So I want to teach you to be Medicine Buddhas so that you can be healthy yourself and that enlightened energy, healing energy to the whole world. So the Medicine Buddha. So first of all, we need to understand something. The Medicine Buddha is a power that transcends time and space. So I'd like all of you to lift up your hands like this. Just lift them up.

1:26:32
Good, good, good.

1:26:33
Okay, now I'd like you to feel the center of the palms of your hands. And feel this. Feel the center of the palm. This is an energy that you feel in the center of your palms. I'm in America, but I am an esoteric teacher. I can affect your consciousness and your energy from here. See how shiny it's getting? This is a power to transcend time and space. Healing okay, put your hands down. Healing transcends the physical karmas. So an esoteric teacher, a teacher of the secret teachings, an enlightened teacher, is able to transcend time and space and create an energy within you that is very So, you might think of it, you know, it's like, oh, it's weird, I felt something. It's a very, that's the power of healing. Now in the esoteric teachings, the secret teachings, there's many, many, many, many, dimensions of light and empowerment and enlightenment that are out of this world, that exist in this world, that they're real and very, very, very powerful. Consider, let's say that you had someone you love. Maybe it's your mother or your wife or husband or boyfriend or girlfriend or brother or sister. Let's say there's someone who you love, you feel very strong connection to. Now let's say they go to some other place on the planet, totally far away, different time zone, other side of the planet, they're in Antarctica, right? You still share something with them, a love. And that love is a real thing is very real for you. Your mother is in Antarctica, very real for you. Your husband or your wife is in Antarctica, you still have a powerful connection through that love. She feels it, he feels it, they have something real that transcends time and space. And it's a real thing in their attention and their awareness and their mind and their life and their reality. So the esoteric teachings are real, like love. So when I can say, open your hands and feel the Medicine Buddha transmission, it's like love. There's many things that are real that transcend time and space. An enlightened teacher, an esoteric teacher is able to transmit these things. So I'm transmitting the Medicine Buddha, the healing energy

1:30:50
So what I'd like to do

1:30:52
That like For you to sit up nice and straight And I want to I want to share with you the medicine Buddha So that you can be the medicine Buddha Not that we're thinking the medicine Buddha some other dude out there

1:31:05
that

1:31:06
that showers healing on us, right? The Medicine Buddha is us, we. We are the expression of enlightened healing. It's an experience, it's a being, it's not something separate. This in Buddha is us aligning our spirit

1:31:29
with the enlightened healing of being.

1:31:35
And we become this energy, this powerful energy of healing for ourselves, for our friends, our family,

1:31:49
our community, our country,

1:31:51
and for the world. This is our expression of Buddhist compassion through being a connection, a point of healing for our world, when our world really needs healing. Healing physically, healing economically, healing spiritually, emotionally, mindfully.

1:32:41
So sit up nice and straight.

1:32:49
And close your eyes. And I'm going to say the mantra. I'll send you the mantra so you can learn it, but I'm going to say the mantra to invoke the dimension

1:33:02
of the Medicine Buddha.

1:33:08
Teyata om.

1:33:11
Bekonse.

1:33:12
Bekonse, Mahabekonse, Rangzata, Samadati, Soha. This is the mantra of the Medicine Buddha. In your mind, your eyes closed, I want you to see a deep blue light. The same way I projected energy into your hands, I'm projecting that perfect, undoubtable deep blue light into your mind. When you see that light, the field of enlightened consciousness of healing. brings healing to you, to your household,

1:34:29
to your neighborhood,

1:34:30
to your community,

1:34:31
to your country,

1:34:32
and to the world. You become a point of rejuvenation, a place of power, of healing for the whole world. Now hold your right hand up. Imagine in your right hand a bowl being filled with medicine. All ills of your being—all ills, illnesses, pains, hardships—mental, emotional, physical—are filled with a medicine from this blue light.

1:35:36
In the right hand.

1:35:42
In the left hand, we're picking something. It's picking an herb, picking something from the ground that will create healing. You have the resources. This is a mudra of the resources for healing. You can find them. The bowl being filled with medicine and any other resources for healing you can derive from the universe with this mudra. So just pick and hold. This is the mudra of the Mipham Buddha. So in our practice, and you should practice this even for a minute or two after your meditation, after your practice of relative bodhicitta, you should sit and say, Medicine Buddha, deep blue light, I'm filled with medicine and I'm able to pick medicine, any resources in the universe to heal anything. And that attention, the deep blue light, being open to be filled with medicine and being able to find every medicine resource, that is the Medicine Buddha.

1:37:26
You become the Medicine Buddha.

1:37:28
Those are the skillful means, the practices. And as you practice it more and more, these things become very evident. Like you start to know, I have a family member who's ill. Maybe it's not the coronavirus, maybe it's something else. Maybe it's the back pain. I know what to do. I know what to do. So there's an intuition that you gain from this. But by just practicing this, don't focus on another person, just focus on you, reading the medicine book, having awareness of what you see going on. And this brings enlightenment and healing,

1:38:18
a very powerful healing.

1:38:21
This comes from a tradition where there's a lot of success, a lot of magical healing. So if you practice this every day, and it doesn't have to be very long, deep blue, open, open, and just be aware. It brings enlightened energy through. If you practice practice this every day, you start to see what it means. And then you start to see powerful spiritual effects. So thank you. And I'd like to open things up to questions. Oh, we're getting a little bit late over there in Europe. Sorry, I took a long time. So yeah, I'd like to see if there's any questions that you have over there. And we might do some questions tonight, and we might do some questions another time, so we can get together again. But we'll start off with what we got.

1:39:58
Hello everyone, I just wanted to encourage you to unmute yourself and say your question. And if it's someone from Hungary or France that needs translation, Banna and Yogini will help you. So this is your chance.

1:40:13
It's not easy to be the first. Hello. Can you hear me? Yeah.

1:40:31
Hello, Sambara. I'm Raul from Romania.

1:40:37
And first off I want to thank you for opening the tech school for us and I have many questions and my question is about this so if it's an okay question I can say it if not I can I ask about the the technology? Okay so thank you for opening it for us and my question is if you have any words of encouragement for the ones who signed up or can give us some more insight about the relationship relationship between spirituality, meditation and technology from your point of view? Because it's very interesting for me and this is the first place where I've ever heard about this concept. I'm quite familiar with the spirituality, not so much with technology, but I've searched a lot and this is the first time I've ever heard about this so I'm very interested.

1:42:07
Okay.

1:42:08
All right. So, in America we have a computer programming and technology school. So, California is known as the Golden State. That's what they call California. So we have the California Golden State Institute of Technology. So we have a technology school here where I teach many of my students computer programming. The Golden State of Technology, we started in 2002. So we have a very, very strong successful rate of teaching people technology and people becoming strong technologists in Silicon Valley. So we do this as a practice of right livelihood of job yoga. So many of my students here are very, very successful computer programmers working at Apple, Google, Facebook, Netflix, working at all the top technology companies that reach around the whole world. My teacher recommended computer programming to me and all of the Buddhist monks of my generation in his school. And he said, computer programming develops your mind. It develops the way that you're able to process information,

1:43:56
see the world.

1:43:58
It makes your mind a lot more clear. It's the mind of tonal. So before I was a computer programmer, I was born in San Francisco, California, and I was very, I guess you would call it spaced out. I liked to do daydreaming, and I wasn't very useful. And then I learned computer programming as my teacher taught and I became stronger in my mind. And when I learned computer programming, my meditation became stronger as well. So, computer programming, working in tech is a really good job yoga practice because it's all mental focus. And that's a way that you can develop concentration and different structures of mind tonal. So it's a very good process, a very good program. You can do the same things working in McDonald's, but you generally get paid better as a computer programmer. Like, no seriously, if you're like sitting there flipping burgers, you can use impeccability and focus, you can use lots of structures, but in computer programming, there's a lot,

1:45:31
there's a lot of very good structures

1:45:33
that are very similar to spiritual practices. I've mentioned this before. So when you learn structured programming, like you start as a Californian, when I learned structured programming, I stopped being spaced out. Because when you're spaced out, you're like, oh, there's stuff everywhere. But then when you learn structured programming, you go, oh, here's how to process information to make sense of things. Something starts here, it goes da, da, da, da, da, da, up or down, this is yes or no, and then it ends here. So learning structured programming, there's a lot of people who don't have a structured way of processing information about life. They're wishy-washy and all over the place. And I was that too. And so if you don't have a structured way of processing your experience of life, you're going to do things that are illogical, that don't make sense, that don't work out. But if you learn structured programming, then it's clear you have a strong tone out of how to deal with information and process Also, you know, if we look at relational databases, so all big companies have this thing called relational databases. It's the way that they store their data and process their data. And relational databases is very similar to the Buddhist concept of dependent arising. Everything that is, exists, based on a previous karma, a relationship to something that previously happened. And when you learn relational database theory, you start to learn the essence of dependent arising. So you learn that life is relational, that everything exists in relation to something else. And if you're a job yogi, if you meditate and you practice relational database theory, you come to see dependent arising. Now I remember Buddha was sitting there with Ananda, and he was explaining dependent arising. Everything is related. And then Ananda's like, yeah, I guess it just seems very basic, like, you know, like karma, like something happens and something else happens. And then Buddha says, that's only seeing this much. But seeing dependent arising is seeing the complete view of the relational aspect of being. And Buddha said that he only realized dependent arising, like his full view of dependent arising came in several days before his enlightenment. So karma, there's an action that causes a reaction. There's cause, there's effect. When people see karma, they see it in a very limited way. But understanding dependent arising through computer programming relational database theory is a yoga that gives you a deep understanding of how things work. There's a book called the I Ching and if you read the I Ching, if you do the I Ching, it's an oracle that is able to show you what's going on right now and how things might change in the future if you follow the Dharma. But if you just read the I Ching again and again, you start to understand the way that things work. And by doing relational database theory, you understand, you've come to understand what the I Ching is. So there's definitely very strong correlations with spiritual practice and computer programming. I also like to talk about Java object-oriented programming. So in object-oriented programming, there are hierarchies where it's like you have like this one hierarchy, this one top thing. Here's our business, it's an object. And it has these qualities and these methods, these powers, these functions. And then there's another thing in our business that is very similar. It's got all that stuff, but it also has very particular things. You have this giant hierarchy of many objects that are based on or extend different other objects that have different processes that are very similar, but they have their very specific functions for that very specific business process that they need to solve. A company makes money. There could be many different ways and steps and then at some very bottom step down here, they still make money. And that all goes up to the main idea, but they have very specific ways. You know, over here we're selling mufflers, over there we're selling socks, but we're still selling something that boils it all up to the money, the company makes money. In Tibetan Buddhism and in the panthra of the Indian Buddhists and the Taoists, there are hierarchies. So let's say in Tibetan Buddhism there's Avalokiteshvara. is the Bodhisattva of Compassion. But then, there can be Dorje Chang. Dorje Chang is what they call an emanation of Avalokiteshvara, which is extending all of the qualities of Avalokiteshvara. But Dorje Chang is in. So it's got all of the magical powers, the highest powers of compassion, but Dorje Chang also has his own powers and abilities to deal with the life and time and situation that he's in. And then there's beings that extend their emanations of Dorje Chang, which have Avalok Deshara's powers and Dorje Chang's powers about what he had to deal with. And then they're resistant now, doing what they have to do. And they have additional awareness and capabilities. So structured programming makes your mind clear for how to interface with life. This is the tonal of the mind. You know those people who are just inefficient in the way they think? This is how to process and be clear and straight and have a strong tonal mind. You can develop it by computer programming. Relational theory is the study of dependent arising. Understanding life and all the ways that it comes up and how it's related and having a great, clear seeing of it. And then Java or object-oriented programming, understanding a very, very powerful principle of Buddhist, Taoist, and Hindu philosophy. So there's powerful spiritual practices in computer programming. So I'm happy that you're working on the Golden State classes. These are ways to develop your mind. At the same time, as I said, you can develop your mind flipping burgers and McDonald's with the same structures. So if you read the job yoga book, the same structures work. It's a little bit better to get paid more, to work from home, and to, you know, just be very mentally focused. So, computer programming is a little bit more strong in that direction. But no matter what you do, you can bring your mind to see, how do I flip burgers in a more structured way, clean attention? How do I flip burgers and still understand dependence arising? How do I flip burgers and understand object-oriented reality? So in Javya there's support for enlightenment through all aspects of life. But, you know, learning technology is something that really, really advances you. So, thank you.

1:55:48
Thank you very much as well.

1:55:52
Hi, Samara. My name is Suman Murti. I'm from Bangalore, India. Thank you for your wonderful teaching. My question is related to Kali Yuga.

1:56:03
You mentioned that we are in Kali Yuga now. How long is this Kali Yuga and how do

1:56:09
we embrace the change? Well the change happened a long time ago. So even in the days of the Buddha, Buddha was like, oh my gosh, this is the worst time. He's like, this is the Kali Yuga. Everything's horrible. And the monks were like, OK, that means that we need to not just be comfortable. We have to embrace the change the same way we embrace the change of the coronavirus. It's not an easy time. And when there's not an easy time, that means that you have got to wake up. You got to try. You got to push. You got to take responsibility for your life and your enlightenment. When things are easy and you're just, you know, you got an easy life, it's pretty cool, you're sitting by the Ganga, you know, everything's going well, then you don't have to try very hard. There's nothing, you don't, you don't have a sense of I gotta try, I gotta push, I gotta do something, I gotta wake up myself. So this is not an easy time and when there's not an easy time, it gets It gets us to wake up to do something. Yeah, so like I was saying, I had this student who, she wanted to be a movie star. That's what she wanted, that's all that she wanted to be, a movie star. And her father had a business where he was just supporting her. And she's 27 years old, and ever since high school, just wanted to be a movie star. And then the coronavirus hits and her father went out of business. And he's like, I can't support you anymore. And guess what that did to her? It woke her up out of her illusions of grandeur and she said I'm gonna become a computer programmer because and I told her I'm like yeah you want to be movie star it's probably not gonna happen there's a lot of people who want to become movie stars it's just not something where there's a big market. There's a lot of meat. So she woke up out of her illusion and she was like, okay, I'm going to do something. I'm going to do something that makes sense, that's grounded, that's strong, that's pragmatic, that's empowering, that is realistic. So, the Kali Yuga is not an easy time. So, the Kali Yuga, like I've said, is the winter of the universe. So, we say that a universe is a loka. This is the Sanskrit word, a loka. It is a universe. And there's many universes There's every universe happening at the same time, but we follow certain locusts you know like the Atlantean loca and before that there was the The time the time Hyperborea and before that there was a time a loca called the purple world And then we come to this Loka that we're in right now, this universe. And it has four seasons, the Golden Age. That's the first season, it's like spring, right? And then we go into the next age and the next things, and things get heavier, more physical, and then we end up in the last age, the fourth age of the universe. It's just like the four seasons of the year. It's the winter of the universe. And we call it the Kali Yuga. Kali really means destruction. It's also called the Iron Age. The first age is the Golden Age, the last age is the Iron Age. Everything is so physical, so heavy. And it also comes Now with Kali Yuga, this experience we have, it can last millions and millions and millions and millions of years. So it's not something that's going to just like end all of a sudden. So this is the reality that we're in. And we might have many, many, many, many, many incarnations in this Kali Yuga. So it's not something that's going away. So it's something that we want to cope with in a powerful way. So I've found that this lifetime, because of the difficulty, the hardship, and the heaviness, the darkness of the Kali Yuga, that I've had to push more. And I've had to go into a higher state of enlightened consciousness than I ever have before because of the difficulty of this world. So this is using this Bodhisitta teaching, the third point of mind training.

2:02:08
When you are dealing with adversity,

2:02:11
the Kali Yuga, the hardships, the difficulties, the coronavirus, when you're dealing with the hardships of life, you have to come deep in your spirit to deal with it in a way that you can transform even the worst things. You can transform the worst things into the pathway of awakening. So we're in the Kali Yuga, not an easy time. We have the coronavirus, not an easy time. I heard India is on, you know, lockdown. Not an easy time. Unless you're trying to like get across Bangalore, you know, during the day. You know, I spent a lot of time in Bangalore. That's where I was learning Amrit Chakita healing practices. And Bangalore is quite a lot of traffic.

2:03:26
It's actually the top city in the world.

2:03:31
Yeah, I know.

2:03:34
The most congested city in the world.

2:03:37
It's the most congested city in the world. Yeah. But how is it now? It's just the opposite. Oh, okay. See? So India's going on like very strong lockdown. And so, yeah, when I was there trying to get across the city, oh my gosh, you know, like so much. There was a curfew on last Sunday and I was going for a walk and I felt like I was in a jungle not in Bangalore, it was so quiet I could see only birds around. Oh wow, oh my gosh, I'm so happy to hear that. Thank you, thank you for your brief explanation. Yes, thank you. Yeah, I remember I was there, I don't, I think Saravanan might be on the call as well. I was in Bangalore and Saravanan, he lives in Tiruvannamalai, which is a very beautiful place of power and spirituality, but then he was in Bangalore with me and he was walking around and he was just like, he was like, it is so crazy here. It's so very, very, very full. And then he's like, but I also see the emptiness of it. So when you're in a place where you're stuck, when you're in a place where it's heavy, where there's hardship and difficulty, that's exactly what Sarvajan did. He looked at the intensity and difficulty of the place and then he went inside and he found a higher viewpoint. So this is what we have to do in the face of the coronavirus, in this difficult time of our world, the Kali Yuga. We have to face adversity and we have to come from a place of spirit. When we come from a place of spirit, we're able to transform that view of adversity and difficulty and hardship and everything's horrible and sucks. We're able to transform it into an enlightened view, like if all of a sudden you can become Buddha, you will look at whatever you got, your relationships, your job, lack of money, all the difficulties, and you will not suffer. So when we have this enlightened view, it liberates us from personal suffering. And we practice this enlightened view in compassion, for awareness of suffering of others. You know, the thing is, you know, like I was saying, this is a time where it creates transformation. Like, you know, I had this model of vacuum cleaners and I'm selling them. Oh wait, I'm not selling them anymore. But guess what? I can make ventilators. Or there's another company that makes sports shirts.

2:07:06
They're called Fanatic.

2:07:08
And they make baseball shirts and basketball, football shirts that they sell. And then they have stores and no one's going to the stores anymore. So what they started doing is they started making the masks, you know, like these little things. Because there's a shortage of masks. And so they started to say, oh, if this is what's needed in this time, we can make a shift to bring that to people to help them. So that's what we had to do. And what it does is it brings out the best in us. When we start to bring our best to it, we're able to create a stronger sense of community, care and awareness for what's necessary and what's needed. And it makes things, and it brings out like a lot more heart. Yeah, like I was saying, there's this group of, so in San Francisco, there's this bad neighborhood downtown. It's called the Tenderloin. And in this neighborhood, there's no houses. It's just big apartment buildings and bad neighborhood. And a group of the 12 to 16-year-olds, they just kind of got together. And they just had the awareness that there were people in these big apartment buildings who were old, old couples, like grandmas and grandpas, and they were just like, hey, you know what, we have to help them out. So they self-organized this group of young people, and they all just networked and knew where the older people were. And then they said, you know, we will shop for you, give you things, leave it at your door, you know, not connect with you or whatever. But they just were like aware. So this is something that is very like Bodhisitta. Awareness of people with difficulties and doing something to help them. So this is something that we can do in difficult times. It creates reasons to be stronger, to be smarter, to wake up, and reasons for us to be a stronger, more supportive community. So when something bad happens, we can pivot our business. We can wake up and do something smarter, stronger, and be more capable. We can have a stronger connection in our community. We can realize something deeper. So I'm an enlightened teacher of esoteric secret teachings. And if you didn't realize it, I'm always bringing the light of the teachings to my students. If you're an accepted student of mine, I am always connected to you. You can always focus on me and feel light and power. Follow my teachings, that's how you can focus on me.

2:10:56
Follow the teachings,

2:10:57
because I'm continuously teaching more and more connection. But if you just sit there and go... And maybe even a silly joke from me. Oh, my connection is unstable. Okay, so we're going to take a 10 minute break. Then we're going to come back and I'll answer some more questions, we won't go forever.

2:11:39
Hello. We're back.

2:11:41
Want to take a short break.

2:11:43
Hello.

2:11:44
Hello.

2:11:45
Yeah, so my name is Ashish.

2:11:48
Currently I am in Munich.

2:11:50
Munich, okay. My question is that why we are doing our tasks what we are doing in our current life is it predestined or it is completely in our hands to lead our life the way we want because sometimes I feel that I don't think but I am doing it because situations are making me do that tasks so I just want some insights on this question and thank you for everything. We love it.

2:12:28
Okay, great.

2:12:30
Yes. So, everything's predestined and we're all stuck in it. Unless we change our mind. So, so destiny, we could say is a karma. It's like, if we just follow what happens and unfolds before us, then that is destiny. That is something that just occurs based on our karma. Something good might happen, something difficult might happen. And so if we just follow our karma and just do what we do, stay in our cultural milieu, or do what our parents say, all these things, then we will follow a karma, a destiny. Enlightenment is changing karma. So we might be in the most fixed condition. Something where like, you know, like, I don't know, like a Barack Obama or something. He's a black man and most black men in America have a very fixed ability to succeed. But you can exert will and change your condition. Destiny is an opinion. Destiny is a karma, but the pathway to enlightenment is all about changing karma. You can change karma with will. Now when your will is aligned with Dharma, this is where we come to the story of Buddha. Buddha was stuck in a seriously strong destiny. goodness of a nation, and he had everything you could want. Great food, friends, women, everything was perfect. But he found it to be soulless. So then he used his will to change things. He left. He pushed. He did something. If he had just gone with his destiny, flowed with the karmas, then he would be in that world of samsara, of illusion. He used his awakened mind to do something. We can all do this. We're all stuck in a whole bunch of karma. Look at your situation. You live in a certain place, in a certain apartment, house, certain people, certain job, certain stuff. This is all karma. But just like Buddha, you can transcend it all. Just like Buddha, nothing can stop you. You can become awakened. And the wonderful thing about Arsetti, like Buddha, he's like, oh there's like money and power and women and all this stuff, I gotta leave it. That's because he was a beginner. You don't have to leave anything. You don't have to leave anything. You don't have to leave money, power, family, lover. You just, you don't have to leave. You can be in the presence of everything in your life. Because that's what Buddha came back to, everything in his life. You don't have to leave everything. You just have to awaken. So people who are difficult, mom, dad, my wife, my husband, my girlfriend, my boyfriend, my brother, my sister, right? You don't have to leave them. They're challenges. But that's why you have to do what we have to do with the coronavirus. into practice and greater and stronger compassion. Wake up. I mean like, come on, Buddha was an asshole. Here's my teaching. Buddha was an asshole. He was a jerk and hurt people in the beginning. And then he came back and what did he do? He brought enlightenment. He made his mother, well his mother died, so his stepmother raised him. He taught her and she became enlightened. He made his mother enlightened. He had a son and he ran away from his son for most of his life. Hashtag black people.

2:18:50
Good joke.

2:18:52
Sorry. Anyway.

2:18:54
I mean like, okay, I got a couple out here. Okay.

2:19:00
American thing.

2:19:01
Okay. But he left his son. When his son was a baby. When he came back, he taught his son and his son became enlightened. So in the beginning, this is my Buddhist teaching, Buddha was an asshole. He was. He didn't have to do things the way he did it. Enlightenment from a mother, a father, a son, a, you know, a sibling. There's no need to move away from that. A husband, a wife.

2:19:53
So Buddha was struggling in the beginning.

2:19:57
That's why he left. You don't have to leave. You can be. And in being, and in your experience, if it's hard, this coronavirus, if there's an uncle who's yelling at you, if there's a nephew who's having a hard time, whatever you are dealing with, instead of running away like the Buddha did, you can be there, present in your life, and awake. You can be forward facing with Dharma. This is the teaching of the Mahayana. This is the teaching of Bodhisitta. It's like, we don't have to run away. A lot of times in spirituality, run away, go into a monastery, run away, go to the top of the mountain. And all that is a teaching of personal self-liberation. I've got to get away from the things I don't that's a way. But you can also be in life. That's what Buddha came back to. To face his life, his previous kingdom where he was a prince, his father, his mother, his to teach enlightenment to them. So don't run away from life.

2:21:57
We don't have to.

2:21:58
I mean, sometimes maybe a week or, you know, Pascal is here from Paris and he's got, you know, a few months here and he's having an amazing, powerful experience living in Bodhi Woods. So you know a retreat from time to time can make a powerful shift, but we don't run away from life. We face life. We face the world, the coronavirus, we face the realities of whatever our situation is, to make ourselves powerful, strong in the world, and powerful and strong in the mind, powerful and strong in our spiritual practice. So this is what we do. This is what we do. Don't be asleep. Don't fall into confusions and fears of the world. We wake up and we do things. We do practice. We meditate. And in meditation everything's clear. There's no thought, no fear. We go into states of consciousness, you're high, outside of this physical world. This world is crazy, which drives us to follow the third point of mind training transforms adverse conditions into a pathway of awakening. This world is crazy. I think we can all look at the world and see 10,000 crazy things. to an awareness beyond craziness. Those 10,000 crazy things are 10,000 inspirations for our spirit to awaken, to not be entrapped. Our spirit to give light to everyone else. Isn't it? Right? What are we here for? Are you here for yourself? Do you want it easy? I'm not in the school of here for yourself or easy. If that's what you want, here for yourself and easy, I'll give you a little support for that for a while. who will join me to help other people.

2:25:15
I want you to be strong too.

2:25:20
I want you to be like, I've got loads of students who are strong. Like many of my American students have black belts in martial arts. They work for Apple, Google, Netflix, like everything in the valley and they have strong, strong careers. Like I'm like this, like martial arts and technology, I mean like job yoga, like these are powerful things. I want them to be strong, but I don't want them just to be strong for themselves. I want them to be strong to help others. And guess what they do? They help others. They teach martial arts classes so people can be strong. They teach tech classes so people can be strong. They teach classes of how to get a job. So we're helping each other out. We're not just helping ourselves out. I heard that America started to, oh wait, sorry, let's just call it America and not get personal. America started a trade war with France. They're like, we're going to start taxing French wine and also French cheese. And therefore, French wine and French cheese will be more expensive so Americans should start having more American wine and American cheese. And by the way, it's not the same. I've been in both places. It's not we find ourselves in a funny place where America starts giving a hard time to France. The French are like, well, then we're going to text you. We're going to text you our, what do the French get from America?

2:27:52
Harley Davidson's?

2:27:53
I don't know. What do we have?

2:27:58
What's American stuff?

2:27:59
American stuff. American stuff. So we find ourselves in this place where good friends and allies start to clash. We have to have a little bit of an awakening in the coronavirus. This world, it should change everything. Like, what we were, what America was doing, messing around with. But in the face of something much more realistic, like something really powerful, we need to all be adults, stop messing around, see things in a greater reality, and do things in a better way. When we have this coronavirus, it starts to point out a greater truth. So when we look at the healthcare system in America, it's not a good one. It's one based on a lot of personal ideas, personal individuals and corporations, making money and all these things,

2:29:43
but it's not based on the best.

2:29:45
So when we're facing this time in the US, it's like very clear and obvious that there are structures, people, people with money, companies, and all these other things, and corporations, and all this corporate interest that are totally different from reality. Reality is the coronavirus is hitting. It's very clear it's happening and that these individual persons, structures, powers, government, agencies, these things, they don't support it. But you know, we can wake up and we can hopefully do something a little bit better. So we find ourselves in this world. I mean, ultimately, a world of imperfection. But it is our job, our practice, our sadhana, our training to be in this world and bring our best to it. Bring to this world the greatest light that we can bring. I mean, hey, we're all gonna die. That's my joke. No, we're all gonna die. But let's live a noble life. Let's do the best that we can, like spiritually, coming in through spirit, to help others, to help all. And so when we in hardship. The third point of mind training is so strong. Hey everything's harmful, everything's painful, everything's difficult. You know we're gonna get, the coronavirus is gonna get worse in all our countries. America is the worst one right now and it's just at the beginning. So when things get hard and difficult and become the worst, we have to wake up. We have to have compassion. We have to come from a place of spirit. We're going to have difficulty and hardship physically and maybe financially. And maybe we'll get the virus as well. but we have to be coming from a place of compassion and spirit from a heart. And that's something that transcends all hardship. One can be sick, one can be in suffering, and still bring light and joy and hope and brightness

2:33:34
to all others.

2:33:35
OK, thank you for that question. Thank you. All right, we've heard from Bangalore and Romania and Munich.

2:34:03
Nothing from Hungary.

2:34:08
I remember one time I got back from teaching in Hungary, and I was going through immigration, and the immigration officer was like, where were you? I was like, I was in Hungary. He was like, for two weeks? And I was like, yeah. And then I was like, well, I was. And then he's like, were you eating a lot? Because you were in hungry. And I was like, oh my gosh, that's such a bad joke. And then I said, yeah. But before that, I was in Turkey. Very American. What do you guys call turkey in Hungary? Oh my gosh. Yeah, so in America we call turkey, turkey, which is a bird that we like to eat on Thanksgiving. Yeah, it doesn't make any sense to her either. All right. So, I think it's probably late in the evening. So I wanted to thank you all for coming online and having this teaching with me. This is an important teaching and it's an outgrowth of the last thought song but it's important that we have an opportunity to sit together and talk about what's going on, how to awaken, how to deal with things. I implore you to meditate. If you are, here we call it shelter in place, meaning like you gotta stay in your house. If you have to stay in your house, stay in your house a spiritual retreat. A place where you meditate and where you live mindfully. Where you live with mindfulness and mindfulness of compassion. can sit and embody the Medicine Buddha, you become an energy of healing for your community. If you can meditate every day, access the light and brightness, and excited spiritual awareness, then you'll awaken from being locked in to being open to the whole universe, the universe of light, the universe of enlightened being. So you're not stuck. You're not in a way where everything's bad. And if you don't have your job together, open your mind, find something. You know, I have lots of students, new students in America, who were waiters or working at a shop or something like that, who are out of a job. It wakes them up to find something that is more powerful.

2:37:54
So, focus. Focus on something that works.

2:38:04
If you are online in your meditation, focused on spirit, something will work out. You will be okay. There's a lot of second attention structures in the school. strong, being enlightened and awake and do yoga, you will be well. So get it straight in your heart, straight in your spirit, focus, meditate, be in line with the teachings and Thank you all so much. And if you found this valuable, then we can have more meetings like this. I appreciate you sitting with me into the late evening, and I hope you're well. I want you to do the Medicine Buddha. I want you to meditate. I want you to focus on enlightenment. Follow the teachings of the satsang. I want you to focus on enlightenment. Follow the teachings of the satsang.

2:39:24
You'll do well. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
