0:00:00
Welcome.

0:00:02
All right, we're going to begin with meditation. We're going to meditate for one song on the third eye. Okay, this is nice and straight.

0:00:18
And let's begin. you so The. so so You You All right, so today I'd like to offer an advanced teaching, an advanced teaching on compassion, an advanced teaching that has everything to do about the third point of the Bodhicitta. This is transforming adverse conditions into the pathway of awakening.

0:01:43
Now Bodhicitta is normally considered an intermediate teaching. So once you have your meditation down, like you have a daily meditation practice, once you have your mindfulness down, you're working on living mindfully. That means that you've worked through the Enlightenment workbook, you've really identified all of the triggers of the mind, the conditions of the mind. You understand your mind and you're working on mindfulness. You have an ability to have the antidotes, shields for the mind's reactions. That's basic. That's beginning Buddhism. So, once you have all of this, once you have your job yoga, your career, your focus on your right livelihood, this is the beginning practice. And once you have that, then there's bodhicitta is an intermediate teaching, it's the next level up. And Bodhicitta is a powerful teaching of how to resolve negative thoughts, negative feelings, and how to get to a higher awareness to see a bigger truth. Once you can resolve negative thoughts and negative feelings, it resolves the self and suffering. If you can take everything that happens to you, that bothers you, and do Bodhicitta and turn it all into compassion, then you're free. So it's a very powerful teaching. But that's an intermediate teaching. So this is an advanced teaching, but it's an advanced teaching of Bodhicitta. Now, how is it an advanced teaching? Well, in the beginning teachings, they're advanced teachings. In the intermediate teachings, they are advanced teachings. And in the advanced teachings, they're the beginning teachings. So everything is everything. I used to be very, very, very structured, and now I'm like, nope. I'm like, in my dojo. So, there was a time where, 2500 years ago, Buddha was teaching what we would call Hinayana Buddhism, enlightenment for the self. How do you figure out your liberation? And then towards the end of his life, he started to teach more about compassion as a higher way. So there was a time where he sat for his congregation of Buddhist monks. And he said, Ananda, Ananda was one of his close students. He was actually his cousin. But Ananda was someone who was very close to Buddha. And he said, Ananda, come forth. Come forth and I will teach you the advanced teachings of compassion. And Ananda came fifth and won a toaster. So that means these teachings are rare. The advanced teachings of compassion are not what people normally talk about, but there is advanced teachings in the intermediate teachings. compassion, and transforming adverse conditions into the pathway of enlightenment. There's a powerful dimension of Jnana Yoga in Bodhicitta. So this is going to be a higher teaching, an advanced teaching of the subject of Bodhicitta. So if you're versed and well versed in Bodhicitta, this is an advanced point of view. And there is an advanced point of view on even beginning teachings. You came to your first meditation class, and what do you learn? Meditation. The very simple process of sitting and stilling the mind is the advanced teachings. So, sitting and meditation, stilling the mind, will bring liberation. You'll figure out everything. There's nothing more than the most basic thing, which is just sit. Well, you don't even have to sit. You just have to stop thought. If you just stop thought, we're going to get there. This is going to be a teaching that brings you to the regular reality. I call it the natural state. Natural. The natural state. And that means that many things that we do and think are unnatural. But we are going to come to this natural condition. The natural condition, the natural state of mind

0:12:11
is

0:12:12
yana. Yana is knowledge. But it's beyond just knowing stuff. Yana is knowing truth. Knowledge is truth. So not just like knowing how to like fix a car's engine when it's broken. Like not just some information, it's the knowledge of life. So jnana, in our jnana yoga way of dimension of understanding bodhicitta. Jnana is knowing life, the truth of life, understanding life, seeing the truth, apprehending the truth, having the discrimination and the discernment to get rid of all illusion and see ultimate truth. Yana is powerful. It is the most direct way of understanding. When you come from a place of knowledge and yana, this is what Krishna in the Bhagavad Gita talked about as being the highest way. He said, this is the way closest to my heart. This is the way of direct recognition of Krishna.

0:14:15
It's Jnana.

0:14:18
It's knowledge. It's truth. It's direct awareness. where you're like walking through the cycles of self to eventually have direct awareness. So we are looking at the truth. What is the truth? And the truth is what the truth is. And in Yana, we come through discrimination and discernment to the direct and highest truth of all. So Yana is always, there's a process of Yana. It's always growing, growing into a new awareness and seeing, oh, what I thought was not real and now I see it create a reality. It's growing into a bigger picture. You're like, oh, I thought life was like this and now I see it's like this. And then it grows into a higher dharma. I was at a certain level of awareness and dharma and truth and then it went higher. So it's like with Jnana, things get better, bigger, brighter. You always see more.

0:15:42
And it always brings you to a place that is clearer,

0:15:46
healthier, brighter, and better. Okay. And so there was this guy and he goes over to his friend and he says, it's weird. I woke up this morning and I keep seeing pink and purple polka dots everywhere. And his friend says, have you seen an eye doctor about it yet? And he says, no, just the polka dots.

0:16:31
So when we're looking at life through our eyes,

0:16:35
we might only see what we see through our eyes. And there's a bigger picture, a bigger wellness. So that the eye doctor could help you to get rid of this, you know, obstacle to your vision. But when you're like, nope, I haven't seen an eye doctor, I only see polka dots. So your friend, your good spiritual friend, your sangha brother and sister, might be telling you something really good, but you are looking in one dimension. So Yana is looking beyond a condition that you're in. It's looking beyond a certain viewpoint. It's seeing something higher, brighter, more healthy, more constructive, stronger. That is what we're seeking in this world. Because our condition in this world is very difficult. But when you are strong, spiritually powerful, balanced, then all conditions, whether they're good or bad, fade away from being good or bad. And they're just truth. Yama gets to the truth of things. Now in Tang Len, you know, taking and turning. In Tang Len, why do we do Tonglen? Because it gets us to truth as well. And Tonglen is more accessible. So today I'm talking about an advanced practice. It's going to be an advanced practice that probably most of you can't do right away, but I need to talk about it. I need to give you some exposure to what the advanced practice is, what the advanced mind is. But, Thang Len, the reason we have such a discipline in the intermediate study, my teacher had four disciplines, the art of war, the Bhagavad Gita, the Dhammapada, and, of course, the great pathway of awakening, bodhicitta. Because these are the most powerful practices for an intermediate student. But when you're in advanced, it goes higher and beyond. And all of these things in the intermediate study and the beginning study, they are all We start with advanced. So the Bhagavad Gita teaches of yoga. So I'm talking about yana today. And yana is the highest yoga. It is seeing the truth. And then, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one,

0:20:09
the fourth one, the fourth one,

0:20:11
the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, the fourth one, in your thoughts and you're struggling with stuff, then you're not there yet. If you have yana, you see right through everything in every moment. Knowledge and truth. It's just everything comes up, knowledge and truth. Everything comes up, knowledge and truth. When you don't have that, you've got to work on disciplines. The beginning, meditation, enlightenment workbook, career, job yoga, these are very constructive. When you have a flow of consciousness, when you've Then yana is the highest way and the fastest way. So yana is just seeing things as they are. Truth. But tonglen is very important. If you can't just see truth, if you're sitting there and you go, oh, I'm angry, I'm sad, I'm fearful. And if you can't just look at it and choo, everything's great. If you're struggling, that's where Tonglen is. Taking and sending, Bodhicitta practice is for when you're a person who struggles. It is the highest and most beautiful teaching for someone who struggles. thoughts. If you have disturbing emotions, Tong Len is your best friend. Okay, so Tong Len, let's say you're depressed. It's the coronavirus. I've been sitting in my house or whatever, it's gonna go worse, you know, longer, then you say... So Tom Len brings you to wisdom and seeing. Wisdom of life, seeing of truth. That is what yana is. So you say, hmm, I do taking and sending for myself, my suffering, but I also recognize that other people have this similar suffering, and even many people worse than me. And then you start to work through it through this feeling of compassion. Yeah.

0:23:07
Oh, there's so many other people

0:23:09
who have it even worse than me. And then you think about it, you're reflecting on it, and you say, I'm gonna do this,

0:23:14
I'm gonna do this,

0:23:15
I'm gonna do this,

0:23:16
I'm gonna do this,

0:23:17
I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this,

0:23:19
I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this,

0:23:21
I'm gonna do this,

0:23:22
I'm gonna do this,

0:23:23
I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this,

0:23:28
I'm gonna do this,

0:23:28
I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this,

0:23:38
I'm gonna do this,

0:23:38
I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do this, discipline, compassion, the yoga of compassion. And if you do that, what happens every time when you put your whole heart into it is you resolve the problem. Ooh, I'm sad. And if you put your whole heart into compassion, into bodhichitta, you resolve it. And you go, oh, I see a bigger truth.

0:24:02
I have more knowledge and awareness That resolves the problem.

0:24:03
It gives you a seeing, an awareness. So, Tonglen, the intermediate practice in Bodhicitta, taking and sending, is an intermediate practice that really works. It's very accessible because it starts with where you're at. It starts with your suffering, your sadness, your hurt, your anger, whatever bothers you.

0:24:29
Okay. Like I remember there was a gal,

0:24:32
a student of my teacher, and I was talking to her, and she's like, there's this guy at work, he's a jerk. I have a coworker who's super mean to me, he's very reactive, he's so negative, he's always hurting me, yelling at me, yelling at me in meetings and all these things. And then she said, I'm really hurt by this guy, so I'm going to do bodhicitta. So she did bodhicitta. Whenever she was with him or even thinking about him, she would say, I want to take his suffering and I want to help him. And by changing her mind that way, to that focus, instead of just being defensive, someone's hurting me, they're yelling at me. Well, if they are, be strong and say, how can I understand this? How can I take problem into enlightenment. So she did. She took the pain and she looked for how to get higher and she saw that this guy had a particular job or something that he was working on where he felt weak. He was very strong in some ways, but he's weak in this one way, and he was struggling in his job, and that's what caused him to lash out. So once she stopped just going, oh, he's mean, and she started to open to him, then she could see what's going on with another person or a condition or you whatever is going on and then you see and you say oh so once she saw what his hurt was what his difficulty is and then she started to help him with it she's like oh I will talk to him about it, try to help him, try to see what I can do. And then this person who was a mean person became a friend and an ally and they worked together and she helped him. And then there was no problem anymore. Every enemy can be your greatest happiness if you relate to it. So Bodhisitta is relating to what you think is bad in the highest way and then what is bad becomes enlightenment, it becomes good, becomes something that lifts you up. So Tang Len So, Tonglen Bodhisitta, taking and sending the basic thing of, oh, I'm feeling bad, so I'm going to go for myself. Oh, I see that person's angry, so I'm going to go, oh, someone's suffering because they don't have food. So, all of this is resolving problems that's going from conditions of confusion to conditions of truth. It's going from maya to clarity. It's going from confusion to knowledge to truth, from false to true. And everything in life resolves to a great truth. Now, Tonglen is a way that's accessible for us. It's easy. We go, ouch I hurt. Oh I see someone who is hurt. I'm going to try to understand more about how people suffer. And so through that process you come to see truth. But In yama yoga, the yana yoga dimension of bodhicitta is just seeing anything that is and seeing how it is not. So it's looking at, oh, well if pain arises in me, I look at that pain and it dissolves. If anger arises, someone's yelling at me, I look at it and it dissolves. It's not even real. I look at anything that comes up in my mind and I see the emptiness of it. That's truth. Whenever you have anger, sadness, confusion, delusion, attachment, ideas, personal history, all of these things are not true. They are ideas. They are concepts. They are constructs of the limited self, what I would call the self-mind, the ego. But they're not real.

0:29:59
So you have to recognize what's real.

0:30:04
Jnana Yoga is recognizing the truth. What is real? What is the truth? So if you are at work and some co-worker is mean to you, your manager is mean to you or whatever, you can look at them, you can understand what they're going through, what you're going through, and then all the problems are just gone. Because this is the powerful teaching of yana yoga for the third point of mind training. How do you transform adversity into the pathway of awakening? And it is the recognition that there is no obstacle, there is no adversity, that everything is awakening. When you see the person who's giving you a hard time, when you see the world that is messing you up, or the condition that got you fired, or anything, when you see it as emptiness, then you are free. That person who's fighting you. No. But they really are. No. And then, but I really lost my job and I can't pay rent and I can't afford food or whatever. Well, this is also illusion. When you recognize that the person who is giving you a hard time is now your ally. And when you lost your job and you don't have money, there's opportunity. It's true. If you think of yourself as being beaten down by someone, then you're stuck in a duality. When you think of yourself as, I'm a loser, then you're going to suffer But if you say, no, the person who is fighting me is my ally, and my conditions of poverty or difficulty in any regard, or loss, are ways of opening to opportunity. This is a bigger seeing. This is Jnana Yoga. This is Jnana Yoga, but within compassion. Now Buddha, when he sat under the Bodhi tree, he sat there and he's like, I'm going to sit here until I'm enlightened. And so he sat for a while, and then Mara came. And Mara is considered like, you know, the god of illusion, right? So Mara comes, and Mara hits him with desire, with fear, with ideas, with everything. Mara comes and shows him all of the things that someone who's engaged in attachment and aversion and ignorance, they would be drawn into all of these things. And he sat under the tree and all of these things came up and they were scary and difficult. All the things that could push you and pull you came up in every way and Buddha saw them all as empty. This is emptiness. So all these things that came up as problems, difficulties, hardships, Buddha was just like. And that's You just let everything go. Let go. See that it's empty. Think of your biggest problem. You're angry, you're sad, you lost money, you don't have a job, the universe is against you, God hates your guts. You know, like think of everything. It was the worst of the worst. And then accept it. Let it go. Don't grab onto it like Buddha under the tree. This is what we're getting to. So the problem We face, it's the three poisons, really. So I've been talking about the three poisons, I hope you guys remember. And the three poisons, I'm going to talk about it in a different way. are, let's say, greed, hate, and ignorance. So instead of attachment and aversion, I'm saying greed and hate, desire and aversion. But let's call it greed and hate this time. There's a load of ways to talk about food poisons, but this is a way that is a little bit more connective. When you say attachment, people go, I don't know. But I think greed! You greedy, greedy person!

0:36:38
Okay.

0:36:39
Greed, hate, ignorance. So when you are experiencing these things in your life, you're like, I want more beef stroganoff. That's greed. I want more money. But in very subtle ways, we have greed. Another word for greed is just desire. I just want something. I am greedy for my video games. I am greedy for my binge watching of Netflix. You know, so it's like, it's a desire that gets you caught up in some sorrow. Then there's aversion. I don't like this or hate this. Hate is a very strong word, that's why I want to use it. I don't like this, so I hate it. And what it does is it pushes you away. And then ignorance. Ignorance is like what I don't know it means that you you just don't know it's like something could be good something to be bad but you're so ignorant you're just sitting in the middle and don't do anything about it and that's how Millennials are Ignorance. Okay, so here's the thing. The natural state of mind is a balanced state of mind. And you have to ask yourself, am I in a balanced state of mind? If you have desire, fear, ignorance, and confusion, attachment, and delusion, no. You're a mess. American students. Hungarians, double thumbs up. Okay, so the natural state of mind, you're at peace, you're at balance. Any of the three poisons can come up and you're like, it doesn't bother me. I'm in the natural state, I'm in balance. I am in balance. But when you start to go, you know what, I want something, then your whole awareness field is tilted. The way that you see the world is out of balance. And that's the way that 99.9% of the world sees the world. They're like, oh, I want something. Or I'm averse to something, I don't like something. So I want something, I don't like something. And that keeps your whole world going like this. So you're like, want, don't want, want, don't want. Your whole awareness field is confused by that. You don't see and understand life correctly. You're totally in the wishy-washy. If you took water, you're all splishy-splashy, splishy splashy, then you don't see the clarity of the water. You're just seeing all the splish and the splash. So, ignorance also goes, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. Ignorance is being stupid, going on both sides, unbalancing you, because you don't know nothing. So you gotta know. So if you're existing with the three poisons, if you want stuff, you have greed, you don't like stuff, you want to keep away from stuff, that's called, I'm using a strong word, hate, and then you're existing in samsara. This is the engine of samsara. These three things continue the suffering of mind, the suffering of existence. You just go... I mean observe yourself. Do you have desire and look at what they are. And this is a very advanced concept. It's something that you come to in deep meditation. You're like, yeah, I don't like death. Yeah, I don't want my mom to die. This is why this is an advanced teaching. You have to look in a very deep way at life to understand. You don't like this, you don't like that. You want this, you want good, you don't want bad. And then your concept of good and bad is completely confused. So you have to understand that that there's a bigger picture than what you want, what you don't want, and what you're ignorant about. There's a bigger picture. So in the beginning of Buddhism, we say, yeah, there's the three poisons, but there's antidotes. So we work on, so beginning Buddhism is working on kind of like mindfulness. So you're like, oh, so there's, there's greed and desire. And so I'm going to work on, I'm going to live my life working on a process of generosity. There is hate and aversion. So I'm going to work on this thing called Maitri. And Maitri is loving-kindness. It's this really beautiful Buddhist term where like, I will give loving-kindness to you and to all. I will have loving kindness and they will battle it out. And loving kindness will win. So and ignorance. In the beginning Buddhist teachings, we say if I'm ignorant, then I'm going to learn to have wisdom. I'm going to start working on meditation and understanding my mind, mindfulness, so that I can have a greater wisdom. And this is something that we do for sure.

0:43:49
And then we come to the intermediate teaching of compassion,

0:43:54
the yoga of compassion, bodhicitta. And then that's where we learn a higher and more effective teaching. Once you have the first one down, gotta get your Enlightenment book done. You have to know your mind so that you can know your mindfulness. But the higher teaching is compassion. It you know, what I taught at the last satsang. Three objects, three poisons, and three seeds of virtue. So in the intermediate teachings we do this really cool thing. We take something that is bad, the poisons, and then we go, you know, greed, hate, and ignorance. So I'm going to take those things, I see that they're bad, and I'm going to make them, I see all the badness of it, I'm going to make it into my intention to help, my intention for compassion for all beings so it's transformed. But yana is even a higher way. Yana, in yana we don't have three poisons we have three flames. So in the beginning In the intermediate, there's the virtues, the seeds of virtue, the way to transform it. Right? But yana is immediate transformation. So how do we make, how do we transform adversity into the way of awakening? Don't do any work, just do it. The flames burn. The flames destroy. The flames are perfect discrimination where everything's gone, cut with an ax. So this would be to say, let's say that you have

0:46:17
hate.

0:46:18
So the antidote to hate is maitri. Maitri is a Sanskrit word that means loving kindness. So if someone has hate, you come over to the hate with love and kindness. In this world, hate has never yet dispelled hate. This is the law, ancient and inexhaustible. So when someone has hate, you come to them with loving kindness. You treat them with love. That's the only way. Because if you are mad because they're mad, then you're just going to be mad, both of you. Entangled in hate forever, it goes lower and lower. It's only love that dispels hate. So the Dharma is when you face hate, bring love. And loving kindness is this beautiful idea. I'm going to demonstrate my love in acts. I'm going to talk to you, I'm going to speak to you, I'm going to work with you. Everything that I do is going to be loving. And kindness is the action of loving. It's very beautiful. Now, the three fires is faster. You don't have to mess around. So, yana yoga is not messing around with all this trying to do stuff. Yana Yoga is direct seeing. This is an advanced yoga so this is why we have beginning, intermediate, and advanced. Because in the beginning you start with, I'm going to try to meditate every day. Do the Enlightenment workbook. Good! That's the beginning. Intermediate is where the intermediate city is where you start to do like what we call a yoga project where we work together and then working together it's super hard because you're like why would I work together with these spiritual people? Because we've sold a couple companies and had 18 successful businesses and whatever. I don't know. No, not because of the results. Just because working together is enlightening.

0:49:07
It's powerful.

0:49:11
This is the intermediate. And Bodhicitta, this taking and sending, this practice that we're working on, this is the intermediate practice. But the advanced practice is just seeing the truth. You say, hmm, instead of doing all this work, doing all this stuff, I could just say, oh, I look at my anger, look at, like I got like anger arose. Some guy yelled at me at work, anger arose. And then when I looked at that anger, it dissolved. So with yama yoga, you can look at any condition in karma and that condition dissolves and there's nothing. It's gone. That's why they call it the three flames. So if you're dealing with aversion or hate, you're like, I have hate. I mean, not my tree, that might be your tree, or someone else's tree. But it burns it down. So the antidote is burnt to a crisp, it's gone, in dust. And by burning the antidote, it also burns the poison. See, if Maitre exists against the poison of hate, then there's always a yin-yang process of hate and loving-kindness. And that's good when you're there. But if you want to see perfect truth, both don't exist. That's the emptiness of reality. Truth is, hate is an illusion in the minds of confused people. And then, Maitri is also a technique, an idea, a partiality of consciousness in you have perfect seeing in yana yoga, if you have discrimination and discernment to understand what's actual truth, these are all just yins and yangs, partialities, here's and there's, and yet your mind is beyond it. And imperfection. Once you're able to see this in your practice of the three poisons, once you can get rid of attachment and desire, hate and aversion, ignorance and ignorance, then there's something

0:52:17
beyond it.

0:52:21
There's something beyond it. So, once you get rid of the poisons of the mind, then you get down to what actually brings you to liberation. Because you can get rid of the poisons of the mind, but you still have the mind. So if you want to be enlightened, the mind is a problem. So the mind is actually the biggest obstacle to your enlightenment. I mean, you've got to get rid of poisons first. Otherwise, you'll never get to the mind. But the mind is a huge problem. You know what? Because, look, like I'm talking. Talking is just one way of understanding. The mind is a thinking a talking mind that apprehends information in a very limited aspect. This is why I'm an esoteric teacher, because I teach on other levels. If you just listen to the words I say, and if that's all you're focused on, definitely beyond words. You have to pay attention. Come on. You have to pay attention. Because when you pay attention, you go beyond the words. So, beyond words is beyond thinking. The mind is the greatest adversity, the greatest obstacle to your enlightenment. You gotta get your mind still, but you eventually gotta get over your mind. What does the mind do? It thinks. It feels. It whines, it complains, what else does it do? Concepts, memory and personal history, all of these ways that we describe mind are what we describe as the limited mind. I would call it the self-mind, because beyond self-mind is enlightenment. If you're existing in self-mind, those are the confines of your suffering and limitation. So, there's a way out. There's nothing wrong with the self-mind, but there's something bigger. If you're sitting there in self and you don't know your eternal consciousness, your Buddha nature, then there's something wrong. There's suffering. But when you recognize your eternal consciousness and your enlightened nature, then being in self-mind is wonderful, because you're not in self-mind. See, this is where advanced teachings get very confusing, they get paradoxical, but I'll try to work with you on that. So we have to go beyond self-mind. Self-mind is an infinite loop. Like, if you're like, whoa, I recognize I have a limitation because I have thoughts and I have ideas, and then you're like, the way I'm going to work through this is through more thoughts and ideas. And that's within the mechanism of self-mind, and you're never going to get free. Self-mind is unlimited and much smarter than you. It's just an infinite engine of thought. So you're, oh, I think this. Oh, I have an idea of this. I know how to get out of this because of this. And everything that you do is just going to be more self-mind. And you use the self-mind to try to get out of the self-mind, which is really funny. Because it never works. And that's what everyone does. Self-mind creates the reality and the confines of the structures of self-mind. There's something beyond thought and feeling, as we know them. Well, I think and I feel. There's something beyond that that is much bigger. And if you're just stuck in I think and I feel. I have this idea, this happened yesterday, so now I think this. That's where you're coming from. That's the mind of limitations. The self-mind frames consciousness. So you have this huge Buddha nature and consciousness that's eternal and then the self-mind goes, nope, nope, it's in here, this idea, this construct. We would call it an outlook or a framework of attention. Your awareness field. You go, nope. Everything else, out. I don't know. Because I'm working from self-mind, so everything, this whole internal God-consciousness thing, I don't see it all. I have a working framework of attention. My awareness field. This is what I'm aware of. This is what I know. This is what I think. This is what I feel. That all of the considerations of limited attention fall into this view.

0:58:36
Self-mind.

0:58:37
But that's not true. It's not true. There's limitation in any point of view. When you're in the world of self, then every idea is a limited view. Every person has an elbow right here. Everyone has an opinion. Everyone has an idea.

0:59:00
Everybody has a viewpoint.

0:59:02
Everybody agrees with this, doesn't agree with that. Everybody is in diversity, in idea, in limited truth, and not ultimate truth, not discrimination, discernment, the eternal aspect of reality. Everybody's viewpoint is a viewpoint. And that's a limitation. Oh, this is a really great story. So eons ago in another universe there was this bodhisattva named Tara and Tara went to this really elite group of spiritual practitioners they were monks and they they were considered to be like extremely advanced and high and very pure and all this stuff. And she comes over and she stands before the monks and she gives this beautiful dharma talk and they're like, wow. All it does is just make them see more, get them higher, brighter, and they're like, wow, this is amazing. So the head monk, after her dharma talk, comes over and touches her feet with his hands and he bows to her toes and he just says, thank you Tara so much, we're so fortunate to have you. And he just, like, from his heart, you know, says words of great devotion and love for her teachings. And then when he stands up before her, then Tara slaps the shit out of him, knocks him to the floor. We didn't know she was so strong. And the other monks there, they're shocked. They're like, this is our leader. And he's a nice guy. And he was just expressing good stuff to you. So they come over, they help him out.

1:01:19
They go, oh, you okay?

1:01:20
And he's all shocked. And then they run over to her and they go, what? They're mad at her. They're like, you came here, Tara, this is great to Bodhisattva. And you said these good things. And we're like, yay, it's good. And then you slapped our leader, you slapped him silly, and then now we're mad. And then Tara says, so you had good mind, girl, yeah? So for my teaching, you got good mind. And they were like, yeah. And she goes, and then I slept. This joker. And then you got bad mind. And they were like, yeah. And then she goes, oh, look at him now. And then they saw this elder monk leader of their group. And he was in Samadhi. He was glowing with this ecstatic light of eternity. And they were like, oh. And then they go, what happened? And she said, he had a concept, an idea of what is good, what is spiritual. And he expressed it to me. And my strike, when I hit him, it took it away, his idea. And then they were like, wow. And then they go back and do, so happy and grateful for her. And then he goes, and then she says, but this is just good mind. She's like, he and I are beyond good mind and bad mind. I hit him and he was able to let go of a good-minded, bad-minded. But you guys still can't. You thought something is good, something is bad. Now something is good again and she's like you guys are lost. These are viewpoints. When you're in the mind of self there's these dual points of awareness and nothing is beyond duality. Nothing's beyond bad and good. But we work with this. I mean this is what mysticism is about. This is what, you know, practice is about. It's about elevating yourself. So like, you know, you change your mind and you change your world.

1:04:03
This is very important.

1:04:04
You must do this. You must change your world many, many, many times. Practices, meditation mysticism, yoga projects, job yoga, these are things that develop you to change many, many times. You gotta be able to change. If you're not fluid, you're stuck. I remember there was a student of my teacher. She was a musician. She was a piano player and she and a good piano player and she did she her job was giving private piano lessons and you know there's a market for that. You know, she got by. She was, you know, kind of poor, but that's what she was into. That's what her whole life was about. She spent thousands of hours practicing and playing and all that stuff. So when she met my teacher, he started talking about everyone needs to do computer programming because it's realistic, because it's something that's helpful and useful. And this is even before the coronavirus. And he's like, it's just a way that you can make good money and you can move different places and you can, it's a, it's a, it's the proper right livelihood for this time. And she's just like, no, I can't be a computer programmer. I'm a musician. I was playing music since I was six. My mother gave me a recorder and brought me to a teacher and I was learning. It's a French song. Okay. Anyway, um, yeah, that was the first song I think I learned. And then, um, I learned clarinet and oboe and I went to the School of the Arts and became a composer and composed some of our meditation music.

1:06:06
Not bad. Just kidding. Okay, so anyway.

1:06:09
So, yeah, I love music as well. I grew up with music, so I understood where she was coming from. But she was invested in it. That was her job. And there was this one wonderful satsang with my teacher where he started to talk about how the music that we meditate to,

1:06:33
like the creation of that music,

1:06:35
the structures and development of that music is very similar to advanced computer programming. So sometimes I talk about the structures of computer programming and how they relate to spiritual practices. So my teacher gave a wonderful talk for several hours about how music, playing music, writing music, thinking about music, hearing music, everything about very, very, very similar to computer programming. And if you do music and computer programming, or just do computer programming, or just music, like how they work together. And after this beautiful talk of Dharma and music and also computer programming, she came out, she went in with one state of mind. I can't do music. I mean, I can do music, I can't do tech. And she's like, this is my reality. And then she goes in and she changes her mind through seeing a higher dharma. And she says, oh, actually, my music gives me an advantage to learning technology. And then she became a very successful computer programmer, had a very successful career, and she still played music and technology. So you change your mind, you change your world. Her world was just music and a lot of financial struggle and then she became, oh, music is a way to grow. It's a foundation for my technical career. Then a very strong technical career, a lot of money, you know, not so much struggle, and then her music became something super fun and happy and wonderful. So you change your mind. Stop resisting. Follow the Dharma. Might be different, but if it's the Dharma, change your mind. Don't be stuck in personal history and attachment, because that's the mind. Now, that's the mind. So, the self-mind exists in resistance.

1:09:41
The self is always going,

1:09:42
I don't like this, oh, I want some of that. It's always pushing and pulling life. The ego exists in struggle. The self, you, your fears, your desires, your beliefs of who you are, and stuff like that, it all is a huge struggle. It's all struggle. And when you exist in that struggle,

1:10:11
you're limited in your suffering.

1:10:13
There's problems, there's good things, there's bad things.

1:10:16
You're trying to get the good things, that's a struggle.

1:10:18
You're trying to push off the bad things. That's a struggle. The ego exists in struggle. So the ego is like, oh, people, I have a desire for something with that person. I want that person in this way, that way. I want to do this thing with them, that thing with them. I am bothered by people. When a person is mean to me or I'm afraid of them, you're struggling. And ultimately, from the desire and the aversion and the ignorance, you struggle with that person, with people. So reflect on that with yourself. You're struggling with people. That's your ego, that's self. This is the way you know that you're not in the awareness of truth. In the awareness of truth, when people do stuff, yeah, it might hurt, but there's no struggle. And your consciousness brings you to the Dharma. So yeah, you might, you know, you might get hurt, but you're going into higher and higher awareness to better and better state of consciousness. You're not getting bothered in the world. You're like, oh, the world is such a bad place. Just the physical reality bothers me because I'm sensitive. There's a coronavirus and it's killing people. There's like some secret monster, invisible, coming around, killing people and how I'm trying to wash my hands. You know, it's a fear, confusion, dealing with the world. You want things from the world, you want things not to suck in the world, everything doesn't work out and then you suffer. This is coming from the place of self, of ego. The ego struggles with everything. The ego struggles with life. I want to be happy. I want to be at peace. I want to not have this thought. I want to not have this idea. And yet, I do. And that's how you know. If you're struggling with ideas and self and stuff, this is self-mind. It's not going beyond. So, going beyond self-mind doesn't mean to like run away from your mind. So some people can go, okay, oh I really have all these things that I don't like so I'm gonna like do drugs and play video games and drink and hang out with weirdos and just go into a lower attention because I don't want to deal with mind. But that just gets you into a worse state. You think you're trying to get away but you are just, you can't get away. If you try to run away that way it just lowers you. It makes it worse. And if you try to, you can't just run away from the mind. Your mind is always there. You can't run away from yourself. You can't run away from your mind. You're like, like if you meet like a mean person and say, oh, I don't like that person, I'm just gonna go away from them. Well, if that mean person's your mind,

1:14:42
that's why we go like this.

1:14:44
Your mind is right there. You can't run away from your mind. My teacher used to always say, wherever you go, there you are. I remember there was a gal, a student of my teacher. She was born in Los Angeles in a very nice place. I forgot the name. Anyway, and then after university, she moved to New York and she worked on Aspen Avenue as a marketer in marketing, making good money. And then in New York, she got a boyfriend and had these horrible troubles in the relationship. And then her boss, she had a bad dynamic at work. And then she left and she moved to Stockholm, Sweden. And she's like, okay, so new job there, still in work. And then she got this horrible, you know, Swedish boyfriend, had the same dynamic. And then also her boss at work, the same problem. She's just like, oh, I hate this stuff, it's all over. And then she moved to Hawaii. And she's like, oh, Hawaii's all natural and all this cool stuff. And she was on vacation for a while. Then she's decided, you know, to stay there so she got a job in marketing and then she got this horrible blind date and then she had the same dynamic at work only she was paid way less because it was Hawaii. And then, um, and she's just like, whoa. She's like, I always get into the same situations. And then she moved back to LA, back to her family's house after this horrible thing, her job and her relationship. And then she met a teacher, and he said, wherever you go, there you are. And then instead of trying to run away to a better job, to a new relationship, she dealt with her mind. She said, I'm going to stay right here, see what's going on in my mind, and go beyond it. Struggle. You're like, what's a good strategy? So, oh, I read this spiritual book and it told me I should think this way. Oh, I should do some push-ups. I should, oh, so that's me. You know, so you go to like books and teachers and things and you try everything and everything, but you're trying still the struggle in your mind.

1:17:50
The struggle in your mind.

1:17:51
Everyone's trying to go somewhere. They're all, I'm on the road to meditation. I'm on the road to enlightenment. Everyone's going on a road somewhere. They're addicted to the road. I'm on the road to redemption. The road to recovery. So, you know, if you're thinking and trying, you're still struggling in the world of struggle, of concept. You're trying to think your way out. That's what people do with the pathway to enlightenment. They're like, oh, oh, enlightenment, yeah, that would be good. Sounds like a good idea. They're like, oh, I know what that is. I read a book. It gave me a definition and enlightenment seems nice. And so I'm gonna do enlightenment like this and this and this. You think your way through enlightenment, you can think every thought, you can think 10,000 thoughts, 10 million thoughts of enlightenment and read every book on it and get every Dharma talk on it from every master of it and then totally be confused, totally be stuck, don't get a centiliter of enlightenment or in America, an ounce. It's all just thoughts. Thoughts of enlightenment are not enlightenment. So you gotta, so this is the struggle of the ego, just thinks, does stuff. It's all the mechanism of what we're used to, you know, our description of the world and our habituated perception. See, this is why this is an advanced teaching, because we're talking about everything that the mind does. But why it's an advanced teaching is because the teaching is how to get out of all of these traps of the mind. And it comes down to something very simple. So the way out of the trap of the mind and thinking and struggling and all these different ways of thoughts, feelings, ideas, concepts, the way out is to get very focused. focused, focused on one thing, focused on not struggling. If you can accept life without struggle, then you can see life as it is, beyond yin and yang, beyond good and bad,

1:20:59
beyond the three poisons.

1:21:04
If you can accept life as it is, then your consciousness expands beyond your self-mind reality. So the advanced teaching of Bodhicitta and how to transcend adversity, the mind being the greatest obstacle to enlightenment, is to not struggle with the mind. The mind is this huge trap. If you play the game, you're trapped. Playing the game means using the game. You're trapped. So it's just to be in the game. Be in the game. And then don't play it. Be in the mind as it is. Accept the mind as it is. Accept whatever arises. And this is the way out of the trap. Is just to accept the trap. So this is not a teaching. It's not a strategy. This is acceptance. It's accepting your mind, accepting reality as it occurs. Whatever arises is what you accept. And in this broad acceptance, then you're not tilted into, I want this because I think it's good, and I want this because I think it's bad, and something arises that I didn't know of and I accept it too. So your consciousness, you end up in the natural state. You're not tilted because you are drawn to something. You're not tilted because you're averse to something. And you're so accepting that things that you haven't known about before, that you were ignorant about, they come. You understand that. When you accept your experience in your consciousness, then what happens is something comes out of

1:23:46
the self-mind.

1:23:47
Let's call it your Buddha nature grows beyond self-mind to a higher consciousness. And this higher consciousness knows it's much bigger and brighter and broader than the thinking mind, the feeling of concept and the mind of personal history and memory. It's beyond that. It's vastly beyond that. And then when you're beyond that, the self-mind is still within it. So in enlightenment there's still the self-mind. You can talk in certain ways, you can act in the physical world, but you have a consciousness that's far more vast than the stuck mind of duality, thought, and feeling. So, don't struggle. Accept it. Accept the consciousness that occurs. Now, when that happens, people start to go, whoa, if I'm going to accept it, I start thinking all these other thoughts about it. What is it going to be like if I accept it? If I accept it, is it going to do this? Is it going to do that? What's going to happen to me tomorrow? If I accept it right now, then tomorrow I might be weird. And tomorrow this might happen. Tomorrow some problem might occur. So that goes right back into the thinking mind. Once you propose this idea of meditation, and stop thought, and to accept reality as it unfolds in your experience, you start to say, oh. You start to think, I'm meditating to stop thought and as I get still, what's going to happen to me? So once you catch that, what's going to happen to me, that's the thinking mind. The thinking mind, the self-mind, is trying to hang on to itself. So you've got to let that go. You have to recognize that, that thinking mind anchors in and holds on. I remember, so I do the esoteric teachings. And I remember a student who said, the transmissions, I sit there and I wonder what's going to happen. And I think, what should I be seeing right now? I wonder about, like, shouldn't I see this or feel this? Or what's going to happen? And then if I get it, then what's going to happen in the future? And I just said, I said to him, just sit there. Try to just sit and be still. Don't think anything. Like really try to just let go of like expectations, thoughts. Just try to be as still as possible. The good thing about the esoteric teachings is that the esoteric teachings it's kind of like stuffing hundred dollar bills in your back pocket. You You could be totally confused. What's going on? But the teacher is good at what they do and they could, they're putting the money there. You're like, oh my gosh, I don't know what's going on. Then somebody goes, oh, there's some money here. So that the esoteric teachings, they work even if you're clueless. But if you want to get a clue, and it's good to, you try to still your mind and see what's going on. If you want to have this seeing, the deeper seeing, you just stay in the moment, observe what arises, don't think good or bad, don't have ideas, don't worry about the future. Then you can see more. You can apprehend more. And in each esoteric teaching, in each transmission, there's a direct experience of enlightened attention. So it's an opportunity. So, once you get beyond the mind of good, bad, ugly, bad, then you come into a direct awareness of life without any mental modifications, where you can see the truth and it's bright and it's infinite it's like waking from a dream it's uh it's great wonderful it's a vast consciousness not limited where the suffering of the self is diminished diminished in the light of an eternal awakening and illumination. And all you have to do is sit, be still, and let life stop stirring up the bottom. As we say in scuba diving, right? If you're on the bottom and start kicking, the sand starts to stir up.

1:29:58
All you have to do is sit.

1:30:00
And then everything becomes clear. I remember I was trekking in the Himalayas in the Everest region. I was near, I guess, the bottom of Mount Kalapatra. And there was a little shack And there was a little shack where there's this lady with a yak. And that was a place that you can go to get food. So we went there and we had some yak butter tea and she made, she was making momos, little dumplings for us. And so it was me and my sherpa and then there were two Buddhist monks. So we're sitting there, and it was February, so it was very snowy outside. And we're just sitting there, you know, it's cold. I was trekking all day, it was very cold. And we're sitting there in this little shack, and the top of the shack was just a little hole, because that's called a chimney in the Himalayas. So basically there's a fire inside where she's cooking her food and it also keeps us warm. But there's a lot of smoke around, but eventually it goes up and goes out. But it's like all smoky inside. So we're just sitting there and so we eat our momos and it's just pretty smoky. And then there were two Buddhist monks and the older monk says, hey, you know, like she takes out more wood, she's about to put it on the fire, and he goes, no, no, no, don't do it. He's like, we're warm enough. If you don't have to tumo, then get a warm jacket. And then, um, and then we just sit there. And then we're sitting there, and the smoke goes away. And then the smoke thinned out and then I started to notice like there's this weird light at the top of the of the shack and I was like what is that? And eventually the smoke went away completely and I was looking at it and I'm like wow there's this weird light. It was a full moon. Just like there was the opening of the top and the full moon like pretty much covered the whole thing and I was just like what's going on? Oh wait, it's a moon beyond the roof. It got me to look at things differently. But this is how it is. If you just are still and you stop feeding the fire, then the smoke will go away. It will become clear and you'll be able to see beyond another dimension of things. So the good news is that consciousness is, enlightenment is. You don't have to do anything. Enlightenment exists. It's the truth. You have enlightenment within you. We call it Buddha nature. It's already within you. So if you just stop struggling, stop feeding the flames, that smoke that obscures your vision will eventually go away and then you can see truth. But if you keep on acting in the way itself, no spiritual practice is going to work. You have to shift out of spiritual practice to be spiritual. There's a really good Zen story about that. I've probably told it many times. There was a Zen monk and he was meditating and meditating and really working hard and the Zen master comes over and he's meditating and he bugs him and goes, hey. And then, oh master, what is it? And the Zen master says, what are you doing? He's all, I'm meditating to purify my mind. And then the Zen master goes, oh, okay, okay. And then Zen Master takes this big rock and the smaller rock he starts going,

1:34:30
with this other rock to make a mirror.

1:34:33
And then the meditating monk says, that is never gonna work.

1:34:39
You can't take a rock and just push them together

1:34:42
and think that there's gonna be a mirror, like shining a mirror. There's never gonna be a mirror. And then the Zen master goes, ah, just the same, your meditation will never create purity. So doing spiritual practice in the way of thought, self, spiritual ideas, will never do anything. Spiritual practice is endless spiritual practice. Of course we do spiritual practice, but the whole point, this is why the advanced study comes in, is to go beyond spiritual practice to actual spirit, beyond practice and ideas to the direct knowledge of truth, seeing and apprehending reality as it is in its ultimate eternal truth and awareness. So it's not just practice, doing things. You have to be completely engaged, totally focused. You have to have extremely strong intent and awareness. So all the first attention and second attention, all the things that we develop, is to get you beyond it. Ramakrishna used to say, if you've got a thorn stuck in your arm, you use another thorn to take it out. So all these practices that we have are real, and for sure. But the advanced study is going beyond all of them. So, how do you do it? There's a secret and it's very simple and I think we will experience it together today. Enlightenment is the most simple thing and it is to direct your awareness to being consciousness now. So here's this wonderful thing. You can have many thoughts and many feelings, many ideas. You can have struggles and sufferings and all those things. Those are all sitting on top of your Buddha nature, your basic consciousness of being. Now if you draw your awareness to your basic consciousness of being, that is that which precedes ideas of good and bad, And if you draw your attention to that, then you are existing in your quintessential aspect of consciousness, which is free from all karma and is a direct awareness of truth. Now how do you do that?

1:38:20
Simple.

1:38:21
Well, let's consider air. So we're like, oh, air. There's a whole bunch of air around. And you're like, I don't know, it's invisible, and it's just like air.

1:38:31
And we go, okay.

1:38:33
But let's become aware of our breathing. If we go.

1:38:39
We start to breathe, and we start to become aware of air.

1:38:42
Air is all over the place, and all over there. It's on the other side of the planet. But when we start to breathe, we take air into our lungs, we become aware of air. It's awareness. It's a feeling of your consciousness. So the same way we can become aware of air through breathing, we could become aware of consciousness by recognizing that we're conscious, that we're awake, that our mind being awake, being conscious of life, even beyond likes, dislikes, and basic consciousness of being. If we can become aware of that, that is truth.

1:39:46
That is knowing.

1:39:47
That is knowledge. That is discrimination. Pushing off good, bad, three poisons, all ideas, all karmas, and getting to the ultimate consciousness of our being, our eternal side, the Ultimate Truth. This is what we can become aware of when we are able to transform the mind— that which is the obstacle to enlightenment— we are able to transform it into awakening. When we can let go of diversity, of good, bad, through poisons, we can just recognize our consciousness, just like we can recognize air. That's air, when we feel it. And we can recognize our consciousness just by looking at it directly with no good and bad, no attachment, no concept. Just recognize your mind, your consciousness. So we're going to sit for one song and this is going to be the transmission of direct consciousness. We're not going to focus on any chakra. I want you to just feel the awakened aspect of your being. No ideas, no desires, no fears. just like breathing, and you might want to breathe, just like breathing, you just recognize your consciousness.

1:41:48
Very simple.

1:41:50
Okay, so we're going to sit for one song.

1:41:55
Let's begin.

1:41:56
Thank you.

1:42:03
so so so so so you you Okay, very nice. So this is an advanced teaching of bodhicitta, an advanced teaching of compassion. Because when you're able to free your mind of all adversity, what comes up in your karma, daily life, people that you have difficulties with, hardships with

1:43:27
your own thoughts and things, right, and then when you go deeper and you can be, you know, let go of ignorance and the three poisons. And when you can deal with your mind directly and you can let go of the didactical thinking, duality and all sorts of concepts and things and sires and incursions and things. When you can deal with your mind and go to a higher state of consciousness, this is what meditation is. This is what compassion brings you to. Then your consciousness goes from self-mind to enlightened awareness. And enlightened awareness to all who come to you or interface with you. If you're in that state, it brings them peace. It relieves them of suffering. It always uplifts people. So simply by going out of the self-mind, it is a powerful act of compassion. So this is the advanced practice of seeing, wisdom of knowledge that brings you out of suffering, out of the obstacles, that transforms them into awakening. out of the obstacles, that transforms them into awakening. Okay, thank you all very much. Be well. Wash your hands. Take care. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
