0:00:00
Hello, welcome to Satsang. Let's begin with meditation. We will sit for one song, focusing on the heart chakra. Sit up nice and straight.

0:00:17
Let's begin.

0:00:18
so the the the the so so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Alright, very good. So today I'd like to conclude the teachings on the sixth point of Lojong, which is the commitments of mind training. So it's important to recognize when we talk about commitment commitment first and foremost to yourself, first and foremost to your enlightenment, to your empowerment, to your spiritual liberation. So when we think about commitment to something,

0:02:32
we have to say, well, if it's going to make me healthy, happy, stronger, better, I suppose I could commit to it. I could maybe try. Because often when we think about commitment, we think about But it's actually work that develops yourself, makes your life stronger and better. So it's not something to think of as drudgery. It is, there's a lot of work that goes into commitment training. You have to be impeccable. You have to do things in a very precise, perfect, constructive way. You have to be responsible. So if you're doing something that doesn't work, you have to take responsibility for it yourself. There's no excuses in commitment to yourself Like something something fails and now you go. Oh It was somebody else's fault. Oh, I don't care whatever No excuses. You have to take responsibility. You have to do the work Whether it is in meditation and mindfulness or in your career, job yoga. So it's very important to recognize that the commitment that we talk about in mind training is very much a feeling of success and victory. It's not a feeling of, oh, this is something heavy and difficult that I'm going to fail at. It's something where you're like, wow, this is really working, and I'm going to really push harder, and I'm going to be excellent and perfect. So it's very important. I remember I struggled with commitment when I was learning about computer programming and career, because I wanted to be like a Kung Fu teacher and I was really into that kind of stuff. And so this idea of becoming a computer programmer was very difficult for me. Also, I wasn't very, you know, mathematical, mathematically inclined. I was mathematically declined. I remember when I first sat down and one of the older students had to show me how to use a mouse. I was like, what is this thing? Are you talking to it? I was really new to it. I struggled with it. It was hard. I was like, huh, do I really want to be on the pathway to enlightenment. But boy, it's kind of tough to go this computer programming route that's so different. And then I said, OK, I will commit to this. And then I did a pretty bad job in the beginning. I was like, OK, I'm going to go to computer programming school. It's a six-month certificate course and I go there and then I flunked out because it was too hard for me or I wasn't studying hard enough. It was difficult. And I was like, oh. But even though I flunked out, I kept going. I was committed to learning, so I kept going. And then I remember after trying and trying and trying, all of a sudden I was working on coding something and all of a sudden it started to click. I'm like, oh, this beats that. Oh, and here's how I do it. And when I started to put it together, when I started to think differently. And I was able to, you know, actually start coding properly. It was amazing. It was like, in my mind, to be able to do these structures of coding, for me was a huge win. I felt really empowered and uplifted. For a long time I was struggling just learning the basics and not being able to put it all together, but I was committed anyway. And when it started to work, when I started to see some success, I was like, wow, this is amazing. And it was this wonderful, uplifting feeling. It was like in my mind, empowerment and liberation. And then I just, I kept going and I kept learning and then I had a very, very successful career in computer programming. And I became very good at it. So when you're working on anything, in the beginning, it's a little tough, but you have to be committed. And if you are, then it brings you to this very empowering condition of awareness, condition of personal power. And when you open your awareness to others and you have a commitment to others, then it's a lot more power. So I want to tell a story of Thornton and Ruthie Blackburn. They were slaves maybe 30 years before the Civil War in Louisville, Kentucky. So Thornton, even as a little boy, he would tell his mother, Mom, I'm going to be a free man. And she's all, that's nice, man. And then he kept on having this dream. He wanted to be a free man. So he was always planning some kind of escape to go to the north. And then he's like, and he's like, I'm going to. He's like, and then he goes, oh, and mom, I'm going to take you with me. And she's all, OK, that's nice. And then he met this woman, Ruthie, and he fell in love with Ruthie and they got married. Now Thornton and Ruthie, they were owned by two different owners, but somehow they got married. And she was a nursemaid, and her owner was an older white gentleman. older wife, which I don't know who. And he passed away. When he died, he was in debt, and he had very few assets. So they had to sell all his land and his slaves. So they decided to sell Ruthie. And so Ruthie was beautiful, which is not So they were going to sell her kind of into sex trafficking. And this is where Thornton had to make a choice. So Thornton had always had this commitment to being free. And then he was like, whoa, you know, his wife was about to be taken away to New Orleans and put into horrible life. So then he said, all right, it's time to do it. So he was saving up his money this whole time, any little bit of money he could save, saving it for this trip to freedom. So he got a barber to write these fake papers which were traveling papers. So back then, you know, black people couldn't travel unless they were under orders from their master to go travel somewhere doing some errand or if they were free. And he got some traveling papers written by some guy who said he knew he could do it. So he got these counterfeit papers. And he only had enough for him and Ruthie. And Ruthie was the one who was under a time limit. So one day, they put on their Sunday vest. They had nice clothes that they would wear to church. And they got their counterfeit papers and they left. They traveled by coach, crossed a river, and then they got on this ferry boat that would take them way up the river to the north. So they were going, and they had several times where they got stopped and they had to show their papers, and the counterfeit papers worked, and they got lucky, because if they had gotten caught, they would have been sent back, they would have been arrested, jailed, and sent back to their owners, and probably beaten for running away. So they luckily made it to the North, and then they were free. So now Thornton, this was a commitment he had all his life. He wanted to do this. And then he came to this awareness that he had to be more than just committed to doing it for himself, that he had to do it for someone else. And then that's where he got the power to actually step forward and do it. So that's good. than Thornton, he left Rufy in the North, he went down, back with new papers, and he got papers for his mother, and then he got her and did the same thing. Very dangerous to do this kind of thing. So a few years later when he saved up some money, he was able to extricate his mother out of slavery. And again, it's like he did something very, very risky, very difficult, but he did it because he had commitment not only to his freedom, but to the freedom of his wife and then the freedom of his mother. So it's very powerful.

0:17:15
But more on Thornton later.

0:17:17
So Thornton had a commitment and that's where he acted from. You don't try to run away if you think you might get caught. You know, as a slave, getting caught is like really, really bad. You get hurt really bad. It's not killed. So when you're a slave and you want to get away and you think, oh, I'll try, maybe I'll get cut. How bad could it be?

0:17:50
It could be pretty bad.

0:17:51
So it's important to, when you make a commitment, to really take it very seriously. It's a very important commitment of honor. And to do things that are not in like kind of wishy-washy ways. So you have to be a committer and not a trier. A trier is someone who just tries and there's no consequence and they don't care, but there is a consequence. It's an inner consequence when you are just trying and wishy-washy about everything. Then you don't succeed at anything. If everything is just trivial to you and you don't develop personal power, you don't direct your spirit to a higher condition. You're just kind of, let's see. So we don't want to be a traitor. We don't want to be like that indecisive Buddha. There was this I was like, hmm. Just kidding. So, like in business, right, we don't want people to try when we're working with people in business. So, like if you're a scuba diver and your regulator breaks and you bring it into the shop and then you come back a week later and they give you an invoice and they charge you money but you're like, what did you guys fix? Well, we tried to fix the regulator and we're like, oh, you tried. It says you tried to fix the regulator. If you're a scuba diver, you breathe out of the regulator. Oh yeah, some of you might not know. A regulator is that thing you stuff in your mouth and breathe from. It has a hose that goes to the tank, and there's a whole bunch of machinery in there. And if that stuff doesn't work, you might not be able to breathe. So if you have a scuba shop that tried to fix your regulator, then you go scuba diving and then it stops working, it could be problematic. So we don't like to deal with people in business who try. We want people to succeed. So any professionals that we work with, we expect that they have a commitment to what they're doing. So this man is shopping. He runs into his doctor. And he goes, oh, hey, doc, how's it going? And his doctor goes, really good. Hey, you know, I've been trying to get in touch with you to tell you something. I've got some good news and some bad news." He goes, Oh, what's the good news? And he goes, Well, the good news is that you have a year to live.

0:21:00
And he's like, What? He said, That's terrible.

0:21:04
I can't believe it.

0:21:05
And he goes, Well, what's the bad news then? And the doctor goes, Well, the bad news is I've been trying to reach you for a year. So if the doctor committed, at least he'll tell you on time. He'll say, but I bumped into you at the supermarket, so then I decided I'd tell you. And if you don't work with someone who does something good in business, things can get worse. So, we don't like to work with people who are uncommitted to what they do. Like a mechanic, you're like, oh, you know, my left blinker isn't working. My turning indicator is not working. And then they go, oh, I was trying to fix it and then I broke your engine. Sorry.

0:21:50
I tried, though.

0:21:51
I was trying to fix that and then I broke the other thing. So in business, we can't deal with that. We don't want to work – we don't want to engage with triers. Engaging with triers in life never works out. People are so wishy-washy. They're all, oh yeah, I'm going to try something and see if I like it. It's like saying, yeah, I got a job working on a ferry, going across a lake and back. And then I tried swimming lessons, but I didn't like it. Maybe you better do swimming lessons anyway. It's like if your job has a kind of thing, or if you're a flight attendant, right? I tried flying lessons, but I didn't like it. Just kidding. OK, so it's very important that when we look at the things in our lives, what's important, whether we like it or not, we have to recognize what is important and we have to be impeccable and we have to do it. We have to do what's strong and what's positive and uplifting for us. Like Ben and Jerry. Ben and Jerry met, I think, in Vermont when they were in high school. And they were good friends, and then they decided to, you know, that they eventually wanted to go into business together. And they were like, okay, what should we do? And the first thing they wanted to do was make bagels.

0:23:40
And they were like, no, no, no, no.

0:23:42
Maybe not bagels. How about ice cream? OK, ice cream. Now, they knew nothing about making bagels or ice cream. So they took a community college class on making ice cream. So it's not like they had mom's original ice cream recipe or something like that that was really good, that they were just gonna start selling. They just said, you know, like, Ben wanted to be a doctor, Jerry was selling pottery that he was making, then Ben was like, I don't like doing this anymore, and Jerry was like, me neither. Let's come together and make a business. We have, you know, we have to do something for livelihood. Let's do something together to be successful. And then they committed to it. And it wasn't something that they knew. It was something that they committed to, learned how to do, and ended up being very successful doing. So when we're thinking about, oh, what do I want to do? We don't just try doing things. We have to commit to something, whether we're good at it or bad at it. If you commit to it, eventually you'll be good at it. And if it's important, then it's important whether you like it or not to do what's important. That's what we have to commit to. Commitment is the choices that you're making. So you might be like, I haven't committed to anything. Well, you've committed to binge watching Netflix or something like that, right? That's a commitment. It's the choices that you're making and You know The the actions that you take what you do Is what you're committing to you commit your attention to? What you're doing? What you're thinking. Buddha said, we are what we think, all that we are arises with our thoughts, and with our thoughts we make our world. So whatever you're thinking, whatever thoughts and feelings you have running around in your head, you're committing to that. That's your commitment to your experience of life. Now if it's a big, undisciplined mishmash of things that just come up and down and you're just trying and failing and doing a little, then your commitment is weak and then the thoughts and feelings going around are just rampant and undirected and your experience of life is wishy-washy. And people are contradictory. Someone will be sitting there going, you know what, I really got to quit smoking. I got to quit. You're smoking it, but you want to quit. So then when I first became a student, there was this other student who was a smoker, and he quit smoking. And I went over to him, and he was like, he had a cigarette, and he was like, you know what, no more. Threw it down. And I said, oh, you quit smoking? And he said, yep. And I said, yep, I know how hard that is. And he said, oh yeah, and you quit smoking? And I said, nope, I started flossing. It's very important to floss your teeth. It is. A lot of people don't floss, but you should floss every day. No, it's really important. So my teacher started talking about flossing as a mindfulness exercise, and I was like, oh wait, I should really floss. So it was about as hard as quitting smoking. So you've got to, whatever you're going to do, you've got to look at what you're doing. Are you flossing? Are you smoking? Are you quitting smoking? It's like a large person saying, I gotta go on a diet while they're eating, you know, unhealthy foods. No, I gotta exercise. Tomorrow I'm gonna go on a diet. That means up until 11.59 tonight I can eat pizza and burgers. Then the next day, a nice fruit cup for breakfast, and then boiled chicken breast for lunch, and then by dinner, you look at yourself in the mirror, didn't lose any weight, so then you get depressed, and you just eat more. I mean, that's what else, I mean, this is the mentality of a lot of people. They go into ideas and dissatisfactions, but they don't, but look at what you're doing, or look at what you're thinking. And that is the world that you make. So we have to not be a triad. You have to be healthy, eat healthy, meditate healthy, direct your mind with mindfulness and compassion in a healthy way, develop your career in healthy, positive, constructive ways. But a lot of people are like, oh, there's just so much stuff out there.

0:29:21
What should I do?

0:29:23
The world has so much things. What should I choose? What should I commit to? Simply commit to the highest, brightest thing in front of you. If it's not the best thing in the world, it'll get you a step towards it. And then if you get a little stronger, then you say, oh, I can lift this other thing. But you have to start with something. You can't just sit around. You can't just get confused by the things. Actually, because there's so many things, you should get clarity. It reminds me of this one time, one of my Hungarian students came to America, and then at lunchtime, he was like, I'm going to go over to that store and I'm going to get something to eat. He's like, I want to get a tuna sandwich. I was like, okay. So he goes, and he comes back two hours later. I said, hey, what took you so long? He's like, I got so confused. I walked in there and there was, he's like, so first I go over to the tuna and there was a lot of different types of tuna. I didn't know which one to get. There was light tuna, dark tuna, chunk tuna, light dark chunk tuna. There was tuna in water, tuna in olive oil. And he was just like, just sitting there reading the different things about tuna. And then, I went over to the bakery section, and he's like, and there was all sorts of bread. There was like, whole wheat bread, there was white bread, there was buttered top bread, there was chiappon bread, there was rye bread, all sorts of weird breads. And he was like, and so he was just like, going through the bread section going, ah, ooh. And then he liked to mix his tuna with butter, I guess, he did, and then he goes, okay, so then I went to the butter section. It's like, there was raw butter, there was sweetened butter, there was unsweetened butter, there was margarine, there was gluten-free butter, and gluten-free bread. So he spent all this time just looking at all these different products. And he said, you know, in Hungary, if I wanted a tuna sandwich, there wasn't all these choices. There was just bread, tuna. It was like the question wasn't all these choices, it was like do you want to have a tuna sandwich or not. So he was just like all these different things. He was like, I don't know what to do. So then I was like, oh, so what did you do? He said, well, then I left and got a pizza. So, with all the confusing things around, you shouldn't waste time and attention. It should be clarifying for you, that good pizza works. And if you just sit there, like, looking at things and not making choices, not committing to something, then you're in what we call the waiting room of life. And there's this famous Zen master, he's not alive any longer, but an American Zen master, Theodore Giesel, and he read this book and it talks about the waiting room of life and how to go forth, get unstuck from that bardo. So you should check out his last book that he wrote. It's an amazing book, amazing spiritual book, Theodore Giesel. Definitely recommend that book. So, there was a very, very famous and mighty teacher in India in the 1800s, Ramakrishna. And Ramakrishna said, you know, if you want to dig a well, you know, to reach water, don't do a little bit over here, dig a little here, and then go, oh, no, no, no, maybe I'll dig a little over there, and then, oh, maybe over there, right? He said, commit to one spot and just keep digging. And then you'll eventually hit water. But if you just keep doing a little bit over here, a little bit over there, you're not committed to one location, one spot, then ever reach the water. So they say this in Taoism too. They're like, hey, any one way of anything brings you to the essence of the way of everything. Isn't that great? So when people sit there going, well maybe I should do Tai Chi or Karate, Taekwondo or Iaido, I don't, because I want to learn martial arts, but I don't know which martial art is best. Anyone. You can do anyone. But you have to take one martial art and commit to it. Then you develop yourself. There's a book called Zen and the Art of Archer. And in this book, this Western guy is going around Japan, and he sees these Zen masters who are meditating, and he thinks that's really, really high. And he finds an archer who also practices Zen and meditation, but he has this practice of archery. And he says, well, I don't get it. Like I see you meditate, and that's like the real spiritual thing. But what about your archery? And he says, no, it's the same as meditation. And he says, how? And he says, well, in meditation you sit down, you stop thought, and the self is gone, so that you are not the person shooting, so that you are the bow, the arrow, and the target. He kind of said, be the arrow. And then his demonstration of that is that he brought this westerner out into his archery range at night and the target was a hundred feet away 90 meters, no 30 meters away and he And he just stilled his mind picked up the bow and he shot and he hit it and then They walked over and he hit a bullseye. So he was showing that there's a greater awareness than just the physical when you can stop the self. So mastery in any one thing brings you to the essential awareness of all of existence. So this is important when you get confused with, well, should I do this or should I do that? Do something. Pick a spot, dig a well. Yeah, so you have to make choices. You've got to make choices. Buddha said, you know, if you sit in the world, you sit in the dark. If you sit in meditation, you sit in light. Your choice. And so we want to sit in meditation in everything that we do, whether it's archery or career or meditation. We want to sit in light. So there's a way, a way to illumination in any type of activity. And so when we seek the essence of things in any activity, there's meditation, there's light. And then once you know the way for yourself, then the more powerful thing, you can have a commitment to others that brings a greater power, a greater way. So long ago in China, there was a general with a sizable army, a sizable force that eastern edge going to defend against, you know, one of the rivals. And while he was marching out on the eastern edge, close to where the battlefield was, his army camped next to a medium-sized kind of city, or I guess a small city, big village. And he was sitting there watching, and he looked at the people in the village and saw them going about their day and looked at some children playing. And then the next day he went just a few li outside of the city, like a mile or so. And he set up on this battlefield. But then he got orders from the emperor, far, far away. And the emperor said, well, we heard that the forces of the enemy are much bigger than what you have. So we're just going to bring all of our armies back to guard the capital. So he had the orders to return to the capital. But he knew that the enemy was going to attack from the east. And so he thought about the orders and he said, no, because he knew his way of impeccability. And then he had a thought of the village. And he's like, if I leave, then definitely the village will be destroyed." And he said, I have a commitment to the emperor, but also the people of the land. So he said, I'm going to stay. So he keeps his army there. And then the opposing army comes in from the east onto the battlefield, and they're many times bigger than his army. But then the opposing general looks and goes, hmm. And he says, if they have a pretty large force like this guarding this small town, this small city, then probably all of their cities are equally guarded. And the capital is probably most heavily guarded. So even though we can defeat this army, I don't think I'd be able to defeat all the armies. So then the opposing army just retreats even before battle. They don't even try to take advantage. So this was a good move. It was kind of crazy, but there was a super kind of power that came from that selflessness. So selflessness, like commitment to others, when you have that, something magical happens. That would never make any sense, but this guy had this selflessness and because he did it, it changed the way that things went in a way that worked out very beneficial. So there's a certain magic, a greater magic that comes from commitment to others. And it's very powerful and very inspiring. So remember Thornton and Ruthie? So when they got off the ferry up the river. They were in the north and they traveled all the way up to Detroit. So they stopped off in Detroit and they were like, alright, this seems like a good place to live. We can stop here. And in Detroit, they were just kind of living, met people, told them their story, and people are impressed by their story. Wow, you know, you guys did something super dangerous, very amazing. And there had been, you know, some other freed slaves who had come up and they met them too. Everyone was, And then this slave hunter came from the south. And he was kind of like a bounty hunter. So he had a bunch of pictures of people, or drawings of people, where he would get the slaves and bring them back and get a reward. So he comes up to Detroit and he finds them. And he says, oh, you guys are our slaves. So he grabs them and he tries to bring them back to the South, but then the sheriff comes over and the sheriff goes, hey, hey, hey, wait, we have to have a trial here and things like that. So they're put into jail and then they have a trial. It's a whole bunch of people who show up in support of Thornton and Ruthie and then there's there's the city attorney who's you know supposed to prosecute them, Alexander Frazier, and he's he's like you know working through the law and things like that working with the judge and and then they have a defender. But the law states that if someone lays claim to a fugitive slave, they get to take them. So he's like, I guess we have to take them. So the sheriff decides that he's gonna have them shift off on a Monday, because he sees there's a lot of support for them. And he goes, well, everybody will be working, so maybe it'll be quiet and people won't get so upset. And the next day on Sunday, these two women come, two freed black women, and they come to the jail. Now, Ruthie is in one cell and Thornton's in the other, and they say, can we meet with Ruthie and pray with her and so the sheriff says yeah, okay sure and Then they go in they pray with her and then the next day The sheriff comes in gets Thornton out goes to get Ruthie out and they finds that Ruthie is not Ruthie So One of the women they trained they changed clothes and they and and she snuck out. And then she was gone out of the town. And then the sheriff saw, oh shucks, that was clever. But he still had Thornton. So Thornton gets in this carriage with the sheriff and they're going down to ship him down the river. And then this crowd of, I don't know, hundreds of people show up, and then they go, hair! And they grab him, pull him out, and then they rush him up to the north, and there's a ferry that takes him across to Canada. So they escape. That's So people in Detroit were extremely inspired by the story of Thornton and Ruthie, of really Thornton's commitment to be free and also to free his wife. So this was something really crazy, like all these people came and just took them away. So this was something that we can see when we see an honorable, righteous commitment to something, then it's inspiring and it really inspires people and supports. So it's very beautiful. And I think this is like something that's very important even when we consider like work. 23% said they hate their work. And 63% said, yeah, they just go to work. Because, you know, got to pay the bills. Don't like it, don't hate it, just do it as a means to an end. But the people who liked their work, the people who really, really enjoyed their work, they had a commitment not just to themselves. They had a commitment to something bigger. Maybe to their coworkers, maybe to the field of study that they were in, or to their customers. So they weren't doing it, they weren't doing their work just for themselves. That's not what made them love their work. They all had this additional thing, a commitment to another. And this is something that we as job yogis try to bring into our work to love our work not something we hate or not something we just do. But we want to be doing our work and getting enlightenment, love, and power out of our work. So that's why we do yoga. We have all these observations of mind and spirit in our work. So we have a commitment to our work. It's not just to ourselves. It's a spiritual practice. But commitment to other people is a way to transform your work as well. There is a company I was reading about. It's called JanCo, janitor company, janitorial services. And they're out of Cincinnati So Jen Coe was made in was founded in 1972 By Jim Miller, and he's just like hey, I'm gonna start a business so he starts this janitorial service business, you know, like cleaning up for companies and and And he builds the business. And then he builds the business to the point where he's a millionaire. And he's a millionaire. He's living a good life and struggling developing the business. And the biggest thing that he noticed with his business was that he had a lot of turnover with employees, or he had a lot of employees that just wouldn't show up, things like that. And then he started to think about it. And he's like, hmm, why am I having so much trouble keeping good employees, having people show up on time, things like that. And he's like, well, for janitorial services to be competitive, I can only pay this much. It's not like I'm hiring people for the highest salaries here." And then he said, well, let me go and talk to some of the people who didn't show up for work or who ended up quitting after a little while. So he goes to the other side of the tracks, as we say, the other side of town, to talk to people who were his employees and they're in the bad neighborhoods. And he goes there and he looks at the neighborhoods. And then he talks to the people and sees their situations. And they're struggling with all sorts of difficulties, like trying to keep the lights on, pay the mortgage, put the kids of things. So then he hears their difficulties and then he says, you know what, I'm going to do something different in my company and I'm going to dedicate my company to the employees. So I'm going to raise the pay, even though I'll make less, and then I'm going to really have a focus on making people's lives better. So he hired a new person called the success manager. And this person worked with the employees to find out what they thought would be very helpful in their lives. So some of them wanted to buy a house, eventually pay their mortgage off. Some of them were like, yeah, if I can have transportation to work, I can actually get there, things like that. And so the success manager was working on developing their dreams and also making it so that they could work, come to work better. And by doing this, the employees were happier. And so they got paid more, and they had these very powerful examples of management wanting to, helping them to develop themselves. And then Jim Miller, who was, you know, he was this guy who made a successful business for himself, he all of a sudden was very, very happy. And he was very, very like, he went from just doing, building a business because it made him money, and that was it. That's what he said. He's like, I just did it to make money. And then he went to having a commitment to his employees, and then he was happy and inspired. And then he went and made more sales. And then he was able to hire more people. And then he was able to have more success managers and see people's dreams come true and things like that. And then he grew his business exponentially. So he had about 20 years where he was making a million dollars. And he was like, oh, living pretty comfortably. And then when he started this commitment to the success of his employees, then it boosted. And he was able to increase his business to making, he ended up making $60 million and hiring many more people. So this commitment to other people, it makes you wake up. It makes you be alive. There's more in it for you than just money for you. It's more than just the tasks. The commitment to others is something that makes things much more powerful. Much more powerful. work to do They're often looking at You know, what is this what does this mean to me? What does this mean to me and then you say well? there's trouble and Then there's treasure there's risk and reward. And when we're weighing the troubles and treasures, the risks and rewards, we have to really consider kind of the big picture. So, you know, because, you know, for Jim Miller, when he's looking at his company, he's like, well, I don't, he's like, I'm comfortable, you know, but making a lot of money, doing just fine. And then he's like, and if I'm going to go out and help all these, you know, stick my neck out for the workers, pay them more, take the loss myself, and do all this stuff, it's more trouble. And should I do this thing that causes more trouble? And then he said, yeah. Because in the end, there was more treasure for him. So a lot of times when we're looking, before you actually tackle it and see that taking on risk brings greater reward in your work, you look at the trouble and you say, oh, it's very off-putting. This trouble's very difficult. So you make a mountain out of a molehill, we say. You take something that's small and you make it big in your mind. But then if you are committed to it, you go beyond it. If you commit yourself, you go beyond that. So I remember when I was first learning computer programming, I was afraid of it. I was like, oh, my computer. I mean, I had a lot of fear. I was like, oh, I had a lot of fear that I couldn't do it and that learning programming was just this scary thing to me. And I kept working on it, kept working on it, kept working on it. And I remember there was kind of a pivotal moment. I had a dream, and in my dream, there was this giant monster, and it was computers. It was a giant computer monster, but it didn't look like a robot or anything. It looked like a mountain, and it was coming at me. And I was like, I'm committed, I'm going to fight you and win. And I did a chop at it. And then, I don't even remember if I hit it or anything, but it just crumbled. And it was kind of like this big blanket fell, and there was something moving around in the blanket. And then I opened up the blanket and it was like a little hamster, like a little fuzzy cute rodent thing. And it was just all... And I woke up from that dream and I was like, wow. I really faced this great fear that I had. I had taken this cute little fuzzy critter And then it was this giant monster. And then I faced it and found that it wasn't so horrible. So then when I was doing my computer programming from then, I had gotten over this fear. I'm like, no, let me not make this a big thing. Let me not add to this my thoughts of I can't do this or I don't have a background in this, and this is not for me. Or I'm a person who does confluent acupuncture kind of stuff. So I'm like, let me not think that. Let me just take this as it is. And then I was like, ah! And then I had a better attitude. And it was easier for me to make progress at that time. So when you're looking at the troubles and the treasure, don't inflate the troubles. And then the treasure is good. So, like I said, Thornton and Ruthie Blackburn, they escaped Detroit and went to Canada. Now, in Canada they didn't have any law about taking slaves from Canada back down to the South of the United States. So they were like, okay, now here we're really free. This is great. So they were in Toronto. The mayor of Detroit wrote the mayor of Toronto and said, you know what happened? This terrible thing. Like we were following the rule of law and then your Blackburns incited a riot. And that is just unacceptable. So you have to send them back to us. And so the mayor of Toronto arrests them, and they're sitting in jail again. And the mayor of Detroit is like, you have to extradite these criminals for trial here. And so they're like, oh my goodness, you know, can we ever get a break? All right, then the city attorney, so they're having a trial to discuss the extradition, so it has to be approved in the Canadian court. And then the city attorney from Detroit, Alexander Frazier, comes up into the court, and then they're like, oh my god, this guy who, he was the guy who originally said that they had to go back down to the South. So they go, oh, this guy, he's here to argue for the city of Detroit.

1:01:00
But he wasn't.

1:01:01
So he actually was there to argue for them. And when he was doing the trial in Detroit, he just couldn't do anything because of the law. But they later found out that he was one of the organizers.

1:01:20
This was like the secret.

1:01:21
He was one of the organizers of the riot. So he goes over to them in Canada, and he goes, they couldn't have organized this riot, because Ruthie had already escaped the night before. So she didn't organize the riot. And then Thornton didn't do anything. He got pulled out of a carriage and then sent on a boat. So they didn't organize the riot. They didn't incite it at all. And then the Canadian court goes, you know, they should still stand trial in Detroit, and then if they stand trial there, then they should be found not guilty there. And then they say, okay, so that's what we're going to do. And then Alexander Frazier just keeps, you know, arguing. And then they come to this realization. They're like, well, if we send them there, whether they win or they lose, even if they win, and I'm not guilty, there's a law there that will send them back to the South, so back to slavery. And then they say, hmm, that's not a fair deal. What are we going to do about that? We're going to send these guys to something that's what they consider in Canada, cruel and unusual punishment. So they were like, this is not right. This is incorrect. We can't do this. kind of a precedent that the Western world ended up following. It was that court case where they were like, you should go back for every reason except it would be to a bad situation. So this became the way of law in the US, also in Western Europe, You can't extradite someone to a country where they're gonna be tortured or something like that. And this was the case that created the precedent for that. So it was interesting because when Thornton and Ruthie saw Alexander Frazer come, they thought, oh my goodness, there's that guy. That guy is gonna mess us up. But he ended up helping them, and they ended up having this big, amazing, world-changing court case. And so they were free.

1:04:13
So for Alexander,

1:04:15
there was a lot of trouble for him. He had to go from Detroit up to Toronto. The mayor was against him, and he was under the mayor's jurisdiction, and yet he went and troubled himself because it was the right thing. And then Thornton and Ruthie, I guess they were paying it forward, so they were free, finally, in Toronto, and couldn't get brought back to the South. And then Thornton, he was running a mile to work, where he was working as a busboy at a restaurant. The streets were known to be very muddy. He was just like, ah, this is horrible. Only wealthy people had their own carriages. Then he came up with this idea. It was called a taxi. So he saved up his money and he bought a carriage for hire. And then it was cheap so you didn't have to buy your own carriage. They had this thing called Taxi. And it was the Uber of the day. And then he started with one and then he grew the business to be giant. So he created the first taxi business in Toronto. And then he was wealthy. And that's when he went back. So he made a lot of money, and then that's when he went back for his mother. So he had a lot to lose. Then he brought her back to Toronto. She was free. And then they bought many houses. And oh, yeah, so when he went back also, he made arrangements, like the underground railroad, arrangements for slaves from Louisville to, here's how they can get up to the north, up to Detroit and over the ferry. And then he put them up in the houses. So there was also there trouble, trouble, trouble, trouble, but the treasure made it all worth it. It's very important. So when you're facing troubles, you also have to realize what is the true treasures involved, and that a lot Yeah, especially in job yoga, when the enlightenment is a treasure, it's a good thing. So when they were looking at this Alexander Frazer guy, they were like, this guy is going to be a lot of trouble for us. So they were not happy, Thornton and Ruthie, that he was there. They thought that he was like an enemy sent on behalf of the mayor from Detroit. Turns out he ended up helping them out a lot. And this reminds me of one of the Lojong teachings, which is, do not dwell on perceived faults of others. So when you're working with people, Dharma people, people in life, we shouldn't judge people as, you caused problem, you are to blame. And we shouldn't see somebody's, something negative that we think about someone and call that a fault. seeing opportunity, positivity, and not looking for faults in others, and not looking to blame others. It's very important that we just take responsibility for our mind, and in any situation that we're in, to be positive, constructive, focused, do things that are developmental, have compassion, and even if someone does something that you can say is horrible. Maybe it's not It's very important There's a story back in China there was a a Man who lived in a village and he hated the village life He just always got upset with people It's too noisy. He didn't like having to work. And he was just like, oh, I hate this village life. And then this Taoist hermit came through and just sat there, meditated. People made offerings to him. And then this man watched him and and peaceful, such a good guy, and such a nice life. And he said, I want to follow him. So then the hermit left and he followed him and was just following his way. And the hermit didn't say anything to him. He just was living his Taoist life. And then this man started living the Taoist life. He's like, wow, this is great. I'm very happy with this. Then after a little while, he's like, well, it's cold at night, and we don't have a house, and I don't like this, and I don't like that. So he starts to like, he builds this up until he hates the Taoist pastor. So he's like, I hate this Taoist hermit in this way. He's just sitting there all upset, mad about everything. And then the Taoist hermit looks at him one day and says, Village way. That's all he says to him. And he's like, what do you mean village way? And then really what he was pointing out was when he was in the village he had dissatisfaction. And he hated it. And now he's doing it the village way or the Taoist way. And recognizing that he had dissatisfaction here and there, he's looking at fault in the people in the village, fault in the Taoist master. And he was like, huh. And he let go of all of his dissatisfaction, let go of seeing any fault, and then he attained the Da, as they say. So when we're dealing with other people, we have to have very, very positive thoughts, very positive thoughts about others. And if you see a problem in another person, you have to say, they say in the Lojong teachings. This is not that other person's fault. This is a fault in my own outlook. I am like those who saw the Buddha and blamed him. Because in the time of the Buddha, there was a whole bunch of people who disagreed with him, didn't like him. So we have to say, oh, and they were deluded. I don't want to be a deluded person who gets mad at, you know, a Dharma person. So when we see faults in others, we want to let go of those things. We want to be committed to enlightenment within ourselves and others. So if you look at Alexander Frazer, he came to help Thornton and Ruthie, but they thought it was bad at first. At first they're like, oh my goodness, this is bad. But Dharma people often are able to help you in beautiful ways. So if you look at everything, even someone who seems like a bad person, something good can come out of it. And even if they have bad intent, then something good which reminds me of, so back during the Manhattan Project, where America was making a nuclear bomb, an atom bomb, there was a European, there was a Polish scientist working in Los Alamos, and he, his name was Rockblatt, Dr. Joseph Rock Blatt or something. And he started thinking, what am I doing here? He's like, I love peace. I went into science to do peaceful things, to help the world. And now, because I was a good physicist, I've been pulled into this project to make weapons, to destroy others. So he had a lot of trouble. He was talking to one of the officials in charge and he said, I don't think I want to do this anymore. And then the official pulled out this big dossier on him and says, if you don't want to do this, we have all of these papers that say you're a spy, and then you'll go to prison. And he's like, you guys are mean. And then he goes, okay, I guess I'll stay around for a little while. And then he decides, he finds this way where he can escape, right? Escape the American scientists, escape the Manhattan Project. And then he's talking to another scientist, and the other scientist wants him to stay. And he's like, I think I need to get out of here. And he's like, no. He's like, you should stay. And he starts telling him all these reasons. It's logical, and don't think about it as killing a lot of people. Think about it as ending the war, and things like that. And then he finally says, I mean, why did you get into science in the first place? You wanted to have an impact. And this is the biggest, most powerful project on the planet right now. And then even though this guy wants him to keep doing something that's against his conscience, he thinks about that question. He's like, yeah, why did I get into science? And he thinks back to his first science experiments and that feeling of discovery and really the intention to help people. And then that did it for him. He's like, thank you for that. And he goes, I'm leaving. And so he dealt with all the espionage charges and he ended up leaving. Then he goes back to, he went to England and he started doing medical research. And then Medical research and then he was happy didn't have to blow anybody up So So the Dharma so there's Dharma friends, and then there's also Dharma that comes from someone who you could say is false or wrong and Then when you and even in false and wrong situations the Dharma sometimes exposes itself. So, do you guys know Satchel Paige? Satchel Paige was one of the most famous baseball players of all time, but this was a long time ago, in 1923, in the Negro Leagues. So, back then they had regular baseball, then they had black baseball. So they had only, you know, if you were a black baseball player, you had to be on the black baseball team. But he was, Satchel Paige was one of the greatest. Now Satchel Paige, he was a pitcher and he was actually known to be the best pitcher, better than, you know, the white league as well. But he had to be on the black league, because that's what they did back then, separated them. He had this experience when he was 12 that totally changed his life. He had grown up also in Louisville, Kentucky. Kentucky and he was just hanging out with the kids and doing all this stuff. Now, one day the kids in his neighborhood got beaten up by a bunch of white kids from a local school, high school. So they were younger kids and they got beaten up by these older white kids. So this happened a couple of times. They got mad and what they did was they decided to ambush these kids leaving their high school. So these kids are coming out of their high school and they fire away, but they threw rocks. They're on rocks, they're on rocks. Satchel Paige threw a rock, hit a kid in the head and hurt him. Then they got in trouble, found out that Satchel Paige was the one who hurt the kid. So he got sent away to a juvenile detention facility for five years. And at that facility, he was basically in jail and going through education over there. But there he had this mentor who was very, very constructive. His name was... He was a reverend, Reverend Moses Davis. Reverend Davis, when he came in, he said to Satchel Paige, he said, I'm gonna teach you, he took a rock, he said, I'm gonna teach you how to put this down, and then he picked up a baseball, and I'm gonna teach you how to throw this. So he took the kids and he created a baseball team with them. And then for five years, they did baseball, baseball, baseball. And that's where he discovered not only did he have a good throwing arm for attacking people with rocks, but he had a good throwing arm for pitching. And so, voila, he went into a bad situation, right? And he found in working with someone in that, that that person was a mentor to help develop his personal power. So this is what we do. This is what we do. We have to sometimes deal with difficult things, hardships that come out of life, and we can find the dharma in those things. So even if something seems like a bad situation, there can be a positive experience in it. And my last story is of a teacher. So there was a teacher of sword and he had this very powerful technique to take a Chinese broadsword, straight sword, and he had this power of kind of just shaking the end of the sword. And when he shook the end of the sword, it would make any enemy before him fall down. Okay, so there was a Buddhist monk who, towards the end of the Shaolin era at some point, the Shaolin temple had become corrupt. So, the Shaolin monk who had learned all this Shaolin Kung Fu, he thought that the Shaolin monks were too much into physical awareness and that they had lost the way of Zen. So, he wasn't spiritually satisfied. So he decided he would just be a good martial artist. He went to this other teacher who just had a power in this sword. He said, I need to learn this sword power from you. He went to learn it, just martial arts, and he was dedicated, focused, and learning this sword technique. In learning it, he learned basically Zen. He learned how to still his mind. And by stilling his mind, he was able to move the end of the sword. That was the big power that he was there for. But to learn to do that power, he had to learn to stop, stop, still his mind. And then what he had a dissatisfaction for in spirituality, leaving spirituality, he found just in doing martial arts, spirituality. So he found Zen in the end. So this teaching, this Luozhang teaching of not dwelling on the perceived faults of others is very important. Even when you see something that looks like it's bad, there's a way to interface with it that is enlightening. Even when you get in a bad situation, there's ways of empowerment. Even when you're dejected, you can find a way to that spiritual liberation that you're seeking. So it all comes through a commitment. A commitment to yourself in your work, a commitment to others, and also it comes from in any situation and working with anybody, if they're great and wonderful or if they're giving you a hard time, a good situation, a difficult situation, you should see the enlightenment in that and be committed to success, empowerment, and liberation in all ways.

1:23:39
Excellent. Thank you.

1:23:41
So we're going to do one last meditation. This is going to be a focus on the third eye. This will be the final transmission of the commitments of mind training. So sit up nice and straight and let's begin.

1:24:07
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so so All right, very nice. So we have completed the sixth point of mind training. So

1:28:32
we're nearing the end of the principal teachings of Bodhicitta. And then we'll have additional that you can get that really covers these teachings. It's called The Great Pathway of Awakening. And we'll send you an Amazon link or whatever. So there's many different books on the Seven Points of Mind Training, Lojong books, but But this is the translation that I like the best. I've read probably a dozen translations, and this one has some spirit. So you can get this book, you should read it, you'll find that all of these teachings are very familiar. By habituating yourself and reading it, you have a stronger first attention and a stronger capability of bringing bodhicitta out. So going forward, we're going to have some, after the seventh point in mind training, we're going to have some of the advanced students give teachings on these Lojong slogans. So, you know, there's like 56, 59 slogans. And I've covered some of them in the teachings of the seven points of mind training. But we're going to make sure that we cover all of them. Because they're good to know. You'll read about them as well, but coming from an advanced student, advanced students have been practicing the Bodhicitta trainings for many years. And so, while in the book it might tell you what the slogan is and have a little paragraph or two explaining it, the advanced students are able to talk, elucidate upon the subject. They're able to give a lot more information and also make it very relevant to this world, this time, this era, and the conditions of this modern age that we live in. I think it'll be enjoyable. I'm interested to watch as well, to see what the advanced students' experiences are. Yeah, good. So thank you all very much. And I'll tell you my one zombie joke. So I got up in front of a zombie horde and decided to tell them a joke. So I said to the zombies, there was this one zombie father. He was the walking down. But he was a good provider to his zombie son, even though it costs an arm and a leg these days to raise a zombie kid. That was my joke. And the zombie horde, they didn't laugh. They just moaned and groaned. That's my zombie joke.

1:32:18
Alright, everyone. Alright, everyone.

1:32:22
Thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
