0:00:00
Hello everyone, welcome to Satsang. So let's begin with meditation.

0:00:11
We're going to sit for three songs.. So so You. the the the the so so The. You Thank you. the the the the so so so so so the the the the you Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so you so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the All right, wonderful. Let's continue with the Lojong teachings of Bodhicitta for the third point of Bodhicitta, which is transforming adverse conditions into the pathway of awakening. This is important. We are in the Kali Yuga. important teaching for this age and also for our time. We're in a very difficult time with the coronavirus. So it's a time where we are challenged to master this So, difficulties, hardships, adverse conditions, they don't have to take us down. They don't have to make us sad, feel at a loss. We don't have to be detracted by them.

0:06:01
They don't become an obstacle to enlightenment. We can face harmships— if you must call it that— adversity in a way where we accept it, open to it, understanding it, earnestly seeking to know it, then we gain wisdom. We gain personal power. So we don't want to, we actually want to be able to take on the really hardest things without, you know, freaking out. Without like being, like, you want to be like a good, a good boxer, right? So if you're kind of a wimpy boxer and then someone says, hey, you want to fight Deontay Wilder? That's the heavyweight champ in America. Then you're all, no, no, that's okay. Because if you do it, then something bad's gonna happen. You'll get hurt. But if you're strong, like if you're a contender and you're really working, then you want that chance. You want that opportunity to face the champ. So we need to be, we aim to be people, beings, who can face the hardest things in life, deal with the greatest difficulties, the greatest adversity. We don't want to be someone who just kind of like goes into a corner and tries to hide out their lifetime. We want to be able to face whatever comes to us in life and not be hurt by it.

0:17:03
We want to be strong.

0:17:06
So this is the disposition of a spiritual warrior— is to face life, whatever life gives you, to open to it, to learn from it and not to be taken out, but to become stronger because of it. When we face difficulties difficulties, and we learn from them, then those things that hurt and are bad, those things that we see, you know, cause us harm, frustration, confusion, sadness, depression, like those things, once we face them, open to them, and we're looking to learn, learn from them. Then we grow in wisdom. And learning from adversity is compassion. So I'd like to tell you a story about facing adversity and learning from it, having compassion, making a powerful change. So in 19... 1982, sorry, yeah, 1982, Dwight Washington, an African-American, hailing from Dallas, Texas, in a middle-class family. He was very smart and he was accepted into Harvard,

0:18:57
Harvard University.

0:18:58
And so he did everything that he could, get whatever grants he could, student loans, and his father had a dry cleaning business and would help him. So he was able to go to Harvard, the first person in his family to go to university. All right, so he's in Harvard and loving his classes. He's living on campus. Everything is going great. And then his father goes out of business. So his father can't help him anymore. So he takes on two part-time jobs, plus his full coursework at school, so that he can cover tuition and the basics. After a little while, he can't even cover living on campus, it's actually expensive. So he actually finds a friend off campus and he just starts sleeping on that guy's couch. He's just getting by. And then the semester ends and he has to pay tuition. He pays tuition and he's got like no money. So he's eating ramen, noodles, a little soup. And he's eating just one pack a day. That's all he can afford. And he's sleeping on his friend's couch and working two jobs just trying to get by, trying to save up enough money for the next semester's tuition. And then his friend moves and he moves to another house with other roommates and he's like, hey, can I bring my friend who's going to sleep on my couch? And they say no. So he ends up in a homeless shelter. He becomes homeless. But he's still going to class, full schedule. Still working two jobs because he's saving up for his tuition. So he's working really hard. And in the homeless shelter, he's just going through it. He's just like, I'm not going back to Texas. I'm going to do this. And he's like, wow, it's tough. And in the homeless shelter, he bumps into a guy who's in his biology class. And he's like, do you go to Harvard? Well, yeah, so we're in the same biology class. And then and then he hears this guy's tough story, too. And then and then that guy said, yeah, I've seen I've seen a couple other students in here. Not for very long. Like I've been here a long time, but not for very long, but they were in here. And there's a place where they get a meal a day. And he says, and I've seen several students at that place having a meal. And then Dwight was like, he was just going to endure his own suffering and get through it somehow. But once he saw that other Harvard students were experiencing homelessness and hunger, then he said, this is not right. This is the most prestigious school. And it's a wealthy school. And why can't they help us? So he started to petition the dean and going to the administrators and financial aid, and he started working the system. And he started, and he was like, for himself, he was like, I'll just be homeless and go to school. But once he saw that it was a problem for more than just him, then he started doing more. Started going out there and looking, trying to work the system. So he was working the system over and over and over, and there was nothing they could do. He had maxed out his grants and his student loans, and he had nothing else. And so he had one final meeting with the dean, and the dean was just like, look, buddy, I can't help you. And he said, you know, and he said kind of smugly.

0:23:40
That means he's a jerk.

0:23:42
He's like, maybe you should talk to someone else like a like a priest. Because because the dean was like, it's hopeless for you. And so Dwight said, oh, actually, OK, I will. So he went to the, you know, they have a, in Harvard, in the university, they have, you can be a Harvard priest, right? So they have the study of divinity, Christianity, the Catholic. So he goes to the church and he goes in and he talks to a priest and that priest was interested and then it got elevated to the top Catholic priest of Harvard and he had a meeting with him and he explained his situation and he explained the situations of the others that he had met. And he started networking with other students who had hardships with a place to live, actually with homelessness and also with hunger. And then this top Catholic priest really was involved and wanted to help him. Now, the top priest of Harvard, is, he has tremendous influence. So the next meeting with the dean, the priest, the top priest came, and then the dean listened. It woke the Dean. So then what happened was they very quickly put things into motion. And in 1983, they opened a pantry, a student pantry, which is where students can come and get free food. And students come and get free food. So for Dwight, who later became a medical doctor, very successful in his career, going on to help more people. He had a hardship, a difficulty, and he didn't let it stop him. He was going to fight even if he had to go to Harvard all four years or after medical school, all eight years, if he had to live in a homeless shelter. So he's gonna endure whatever hardships he had to. He was just prepared to. But when he saw that there were other students who had his same problem, that's when he got into action. That's when he started to say, hey, Harvard, why don't you help? Like, why would you let the students go through stuff like this? If you accept someone, then help them more. Rich. It's a rich university. So that got him into motion, trying to help the others. And then it helped him, and it helped many others. And they created the institutions within Harvard to help people, to help the students. So consider yourself. Don't give up when you're facing hardship. Never give up. When you have set your sight on a goal, something that you think is positive, constructive, empowering, then don't give up.

0:28:28
Keep going.

0:28:31
Face the hardships that you have to face. Learn from it. You know, we're all going to fall down, and then you got to get up and dust yourself off and keep going, and then you're going to fall down again. There's a song about that. You might get knocked down, but then you get up again. So you have to have a spirit of never giving up. If you give up. which is a very sober thing to do in this time, this era of the coronavirus, where many people get laid off from their work and then it just makes you a strong livelihood in this time, a strong livelihood, one where you can work from home. Technology is a very good path. Now, technology isn't the easiest thing. Learning to be a programmer isn't the easiest thing. There's hardship involved in learning. When you fall into hardship, keep going. Don't give up. If you persist, you definitely will learn. If you persist, you definitely will learn. But you can't say, oh, this is too hard. I don't like it. If you set your mind on succeeding in this career path, then don't let anything stop you, even homelessness and hunger, and you will succeed. You're like, oh, that's a winner. If you let hardship take you out, you don't do great things. You are diminished. You find You have to face adversity, learn from it, align your intent with compassion. You gotta move higher. Don't stop. Yeah, so recently I heard a story from one of my students when we got this, you know, isolation order, shelter in place, as we call it, you gotta stay in your domicile, there was a gal who was working in a service business and they let her go immediately. They said, oh, can't pay you. And so she was sad. She lost her job, didn't have any money, was living month to month, didn't know what she was gonna do. And she listened to the teachings of the Last Thought Song. And feeling this fear, anxiety, this feeling of being crushed, She practiced Tonglen, taking and sending. She realized that she felt suffering, but that there were millions of people losing their jobs and feeling the same way. And she was a single gal, and there are people with families losing their jobs. And she was like, whoa. She's like, this is intense for me, but it's also intense for others, and even more intense for others. So, she identified with the suffering of others and practiced taking their suffering and sending her light.

0:33:36
And

0:33:38
so, after And so after she spent about an hour, she said, once she got fired, she spent about an hour freaking out, really upset, crying, confused, delusional, everything. Then she came to the Dharma, back to Bodhicitta. She really practiced, really did it. And then she's like, I feel balanced. I don't feel upset. I'm not afraid. Now, fear, confusion, all this stuff, worry, it makes your attention, your awareness go like this. But when you have bodhicitta, your attention opens. When you have compassion, awareness, care, and then when your mind is as broad as the plane, when your mind is open, you see many more opportunities. So she was not stressed, she was balanced, and she was feeling, she was, you know, really She was really working with the Dharma, the Dharma of the time and the age. And in a week she got another job where she was able to work from home and for more money. See, this happens. If you follow the Dharma, especially in this lineage with a lot of focus on right livelihood, karma yoga, it works out.

0:35:24
It's magic.

0:35:25
But you have to do it.

0:35:26
You can't just sit there and listen and go, eh. You have to actually be the practice. So when you're learning computer programming, some of you, if it gets hard, it's supposed to be hard. It gives you an opportunity to master this lesson. Do you know that computer programming is problem solving? It's like there's a puzzle in front of you. And the puzzle, like, you know, a jigsaw puzzle. So you take this jigsaw puzzle, and it's all pieces, and you have to put them together. Now, that is a problem. It's not together, right? So all the things that happen to us in our lives that bother us, they're considered problems because they're things that are separate. We don't understand the unity. And that's with anything, losing a job, losing a loved one, losing in poker. But whenever we don't understand something, the fault's out of unity. But there could be something that most people see that is out of unity, and we could put it together in our mind. What do you think is a way of putting things together in your mind? When you see it outside, you're confused. When you put it inside and it's one together, even if it's a very difficult thing with most people's concepts, that's where things come together. That's where there's unity. That's where it makes sense. That's where there's peace, balance, and the Dharma. So, computer programming is about solving problems. You have to learn how to code something, figure something out, and it's putting a puzzle together. When you make a successful program or website, you have put together a puzzle. You have transformed adversity into unity which is the way of awakening. So if you face hardship tomorrow or in the upcoming few weeks, if you can make it through six weeks of hardcore focused training, reset your pattern of personal reaction to understand that hardship is the norm. The whole job in computer programming is solving.

0:38:50
Problems. Dealing with difficulties.

0:38:52
Dealing with adversity and bringing it into unity. See, computer programming or really any job.

0:39:02
But a lot of people are focusing on computer programming right now.

0:39:05
Good for you. but a lot of people are focusing on computer programming right now. Good for you. It is a path to bring you into like a union. It's a path that deals with really any job, but I just like computers because you're all like, oh, I got an error. But in any job, it could be flipping burgers. Oops, didn't flip it right. But in any job, it could be flipping burgers. Oops, didn't flip it right, ended up on the floor. It's dealing with trying to do something. And I've got to solve a problem. I've got a hamburger patty that is not cooked. And what I have to do is I have to cook it, solve the problem. We're all solving problems. cook it, solve a problem. We're all solving problems, so it's any job. But especially computers. When you're learning computers, you're gonna find lots of problems, lots of mental problems.

0:40:00
And this is how you're gonna learn this lesson.

0:40:02
You're gonna learn this lesson,

0:40:04
you're gonna deal with adversity. Now, when hardships come, when you have adversity, when it's an intense situation, that's the time to wake up. That's the time to start to be real, to get real about life. So there was a 10-year-old boy and he's going to public school in New York and he was a normal kid fooling around with his friends but he was doing really bad at math. He was flunking math and his mother was very concerned about that. So So, even though they weren't religious, she sent him to a private Catholic school because she knew that the nuns were very strict and she thought that he would do better there. And within two months, he got straight A's. Straight, what do you call it, fives? Top marks, let's just say. So you got top marks and then the parents are like so happy and the mother said to the boy, well what was it, you know, that motivated you? And he said, when I saw that they nailed that guy to a plus sign, I swore I'm gonna learn math. Motivation. When you face difficulty, don't be shy, don't run away, face it. There's no running away. You can't fake it, you gotta do it. There's no faking it in life. There's no running away from life. Where are you going to run? Where is there not life? You're just going to run yourself into suffering. You're going to run yourself away from truth. This is why I'm saying you've got to be able to take on the champ. You've got to develop yourself to be that strong. You've got to deal with the difficulties of life as they present themselves. That's why we are, that's why as a sangha, we are doubling down on tech, because it has proven itself to be successful through the great recession and also through so far, the coronavirus where so many millions of Americans lost their jobs. that the programmers haven't. So we have to be strong, we have to double down on what works. And then you go, no, no, no, I don't, it's hard to program, and I'm gonna like just, you know, do my own thing. And I'm like, oh, okay, wish. That's why this is a black belt dojo. That means everyone who stays in this dojo is a black belt. But the white belts who can't take it, they won't. They won't listen to the teachings, or they will listen to the teachings, and when it comes down to their real life, they won't implement the teachings. But if you listen to the teachings and implement them, you will be a black belt. You will be very successful and very powerful. And you will be able to meditate well and enlightened. You know, all the good things come from here. My life is a testament to that. I was bad at math, bad at computer programming, and then I became an expert. I was bad at meditation. Now I'm a meditation master. So you can do it if you stick with it. There's this great story.

0:44:35
I think I have it in an enlightenment workbook,

0:44:37
but I'm going to reinvent it. There's two frogs. Okay, so this is the way I heard it from my teacher. There's two frogs in Tibet. I don't know if they have frogs. But anyway, there's two frogs in Tibet. Somehow they jump into this vat of milk, yak milk. Okay, and then they jump into this like big barrel of yak milk, and then they can't get out because they can't jump anymore. They're, oops, we jumped in. We can't jump out because we're swimming in the milk. So they're swimming, swimming, swimming, swimming, swimming. And then after a while, one of them is like, I'm just too tired. I got to give up. And in the story, that frog just gives up because he's exhausted, he's too tired, and then just drowns. And then the other frog, she just keeps going and going and going until the milk curdles and becomes butter, it becomes solid, and one says, I gotta give up. And then the other one says, no, don't give up. Come on, we can do it. Hang in there. And then the second frog, who was going to give up and drown, goes, all right, I'll give it a little more. Tries again, after a few minutes, no, I can't do it, I gotta give up. Then the frog says, the other frog says, no, come on, we gotta do it, we have to succeed. And then, you know, this happened several times, you know, I'm just gonna tell it for a long time, happens several times, and then finally they both, together, and more quickly because they're working together, get the milk to curdle and become butter. And so, this is the thing. We help each other. We can't grab another person and pull them out of the milk, right? Because if we grabbed the other person and tried to save them, and we only have one hand and twice the weight, we're going to die. But we help each other spiritually by saying, no, come on, we've got to do it. That's how we are together. And then we help each other all out because when that struggling one keeps going, that struggling one is helping you. But you're helping the struggling one by your heart, by your compassion, by your care for them. So everyone learning computer programming or whatever you're working on, in our bright livelihood, in our meditation, just spiritually. We are rooting for each other. We have to have compassion for each other as a disposition. Because in a difficult time, we need to count on each other. Actually, we draw strength from the Sangha. So, you're that second frog, and then the first frog's okay too, and the first frog helps too. But it's that heart of compassion, that heart of, I really care about everybody here succeeding. Don't give up on your tech. You came to the study for a reason. You came to the pathway to enlightenment for a reason. You had interests. You had goals. There were things that you wanted to learn, to get out of it, to explore. Don't give up on that. That was a good thing. And to give up on it because you have a hardship, don't do it. Go all the way. All the way to spiritual liberation. All the way to unfolding the mastery of meditation. All the way to feeling at peace. All the way to all the reasons that you've come to the path. Don't give up. When it comes, the hardships, realize you have to open to the hardships. You have to take it in.

0:49:56
Deal with it.

0:49:56
Don't run from it.

0:49:57
Don't label it as bad and say, oh, here you go. Learn from it. If you can learn from the hardships that you experience in your life, then those hardships aren't hardships. You can handle those things. You know, the great challenges. For spiritual seekers, they are a catalyst for us to have a greater awareness of truth, a greater awareness of enlightenment, greater liberation. So when faced with something very, very difficult, we don't just go, oh, we don't go into suffering. We seek the way out of suffering from that peril. Just think of the Bhagavad Gita. Krishna, out of his compassion, taught Arjuna a very high Dharma. And Arjuna didn't give up on his Dharma, on his path. He wanted to at first, and then Krishna gave him a lesson of the Dharma. And then Arjuna stuck in there, hung in there. And because of Krishna's compassion and Arjuna not giving up, we have this great teaching to the world. world, so many millions of people gain wisdom and insight from the Bhagavad Gita, the Song of God. So that took place on a battlefield. That took place in a time of great danger and peril. You know, we're in a time of peril, danger. It is the time of the coronavirus. This is not an easy time. A time where there's sickness and death, fear, anxiety, poverty and many alarms. So this is a difficult time. The coronavirus is a time where there's a, it's an energy that causes chaos and destruction. Now, I think exemplified the best is Tibetan Buddhism. There are wrathful beings, wrathful deities, wrathful bodhisattvas, right? And these beings are extremely—wrathful means destructive. But in Tibetan Buddhism, they see that even in the most destructive energies, that there's also enlightenment. They see that in the most horrible, limited places of hardship, there's also a way to perfect freedom. So I like Mahakala, for example. Mahakala is this destructive, powerful force. big kind of endomorphic black-skinned like scary monster. And he wears a crown of skulls. He's got a trident with a bunch of heads on it, a sword, a skull cap, someone's head split open, a drum that makes you just like really loud. So he's got all these like scary things and he's standing on corpses and he has this aura of flames around him. Anything that he comes to he just burns it. So this is the imagery of Mahakala said to have the most wrathful destructive force. It is said that he can destroy time and space and he's the end, the ender of humans. He destroys powerful destructive force. Hey, someone's chatting, thanks. They're like, oh, hey, I wonder about the Bhagavad Gita. I wonder about Don't Chat. It just comes up and it Very good. Because Mahakala says, don't chat! This is good. So Mahakala is this tremendous force and yet in Vajrayana Buddhism, in Tibetan Buddhism, they see that tremendous force of destruction as a force of enlightenment. Now let me tell you a story about Mahakala, or actually Avalokiteshvara. So Mahakala, tremendous destruction, just exists as destruction. And then Avalokiteshvara, he had ten faces of enlightenment, ten faces of compassion. And so he would go around with all these powerful means of helping people. And then he came to the Kali Yuga, the yuga that we're in. And he said, it's so dark here, there's so much maya, there's so much confusion. all of my means of, all my spaces of compassion don't liberate people. And he said, you know, he's like, I'm playing the nice game, and then these people don't get it. So he was bothered by that for a while. And then Amitabha came to him, which is a Buddha, and said, hey man, what's wrong? And he said, I'm trying to help these people, but it just doesn't work. And Amitabha was like, you need some wrathful. Like your compassion is too nice. You need some, what do you call it?

0:57:50
Tough love.

0:57:51
And then, and he gave, Amitabha gave Avalokiteshvara teaching on that. And then Avalokiteshvara, the Buddha of compassion, said, Wow, you know what, you're right, I see it, he realized it. And then, in his mind of compassion, he turned to Mahakala, and turned Mahakala into a way of enlightenment, a way of compassion. So then he, he grew an 11th face of compassion. And the 11th face is Mahakala. So Mahakala ends up being this wrathful energy, wrathful, powerful energy for cutting off things that are not Dharma. In this way, he became a Dharmapala, which is a Dharma protector, A way of protecting Dharma and a way of compassion. So sometimes you have to be wrathful with yourself. When you start having doubt, you got to be wrathful. When you start getting sad and depressed, you got to be wrathful. When you see you're being lazy, you got to be wrathful. When you're being negative, you've got to be wrathful. And this doesn't mean getting down on yourself. This means being ruthless with yourself. It means not indulging, being mature, being focused, not messing around. And that's, and then you can draw this wrathful energy of Maha Kala, of Avalokiteshvara, to have compassion for yourself in a wrathful way, to get rid of what hurts you, to get rid of what limits you, so that you can move on and ascend to be liberated. So what is it for you? What are the things that come up? What is it that hurts you, stops you, bothers you, frustrates you, limits you? When you. When these things come up, you can't believe them. You're like, oh well I have this like weird idea. And if you have weird ideas, and if you believe them, they just, they take you off. You have to recognize what you, what you're Doubt, frustration, confusion, negativity. You have to say, this is negative mind. I recognize this as I am frustrated. I recognize this as I'm sad. When those things come up, you can't just follow those thoughts and those karmas. You have to say, I recognize this thing and I want to practice Dharma. Okay, so I come back to my taking and sending for people who experience this. Because the things that come up as hardships, difficulties, these When something hurts you, normally we go, oh, you hurt me and now I'm mad or I'm sad, I'm not gonna react in a limited way. Get angry, get sad, run away, have fear. The enlightened way is to say, oh, that hurt me. That is my teacher.

1:01:53
It's to say, oh, that hurt me. That is my teacher. I'm going to learn from that.

1:01:59
It reminds me of this sensei I had,

1:02:03
karate sensei in the Bronx.

1:02:04
It's like, he was really good at teaching his students how to block their face. Because he'd be like, block your face. And they're all, ooh.

1:02:13
And he'd go, pfft.

1:02:15
You get hit in the face.

1:02:16
and they're all, ooh, ooh, ooh, and then you go, poof, ah, you get hit in the face, it hurt, but then you learn really how to block your face really well. Things that, so you can learn from hardships, but if you just go, oh, you punched me, I don't like this dojo, I quit, you never get your black belt. If you've got a great sensei who punches you in the face, you're so lucky, it might hurt for a while until you really realize how to block. And then you're a master at self-defense. Yeah, so we learn. Yeah, so hardships are teachers. There's a Dallas story of these three old men, no, three poor men, sorry. Maybe they're old too, but they're poor. And they would get together and commiserate and go, oh, I'm so not happy. And then they heard of an enlightened Taoist master and they went up to a cave where he was and then they entered in and they said, we've had, we're so poor, we've had such a hard life, we want you to be our teacher. Can you be our teacher? And then Taoist master says, only one who can endure great hardship. I'm so poor I have no food and I have great hunger. I'm suffering from that. And then the Taoist master says, I live in a region or I live in an altitude or something where it is very cold and I'm always cold, I'm always freezing, I can never be warm. And then the master says, cold is your teacher. And the third man, poor man, says, I've got this little hovel, he means like a little shack that he lives in, and like, and then, like, always, these big winds come and they knock down branches from the trees and it falls on my little shack and breaks it and then it hurts me and I have to rebuild it and it's, I've suffered this again and again and again. And then the Taoist master says, wind shall be your teacher, now go. And then they're like, okay. So they all go back to their places.

1:05:26
And they're kind of like,

1:05:27
I guess he didn't accept us, you know, as students. And a little confused by what he said. And then they are at home and the first man, he's hungry and he's got no food and he's like, oh, it starts feeling the hunger pangs. He's like, oh, I wish I had food, I wish I he goes, that master said hunger is my teacher. They started thinking about hunger in a different way, in like a more spiritual way. It was like what's spiritual about hunger? How would that be my teacher? He said, what is hunger anyway? He just started reflecting on hunger in a different way. And as he reflected on it and thought about it, his mind became very still. And then And he started to notice, from the top of his mouth, this beautiful ambrosia, this divine juice, started to appear. And that tasted amazing, but it also gave his body energy. And so whenever he was hungry, this ambrosia would appear in his mouth and he would be like very happy, very satisfied, very energetic. And he never needed to eat any time he thought about being hungry. Okay, the second man, living in his top of the mountain, cold region or something, he was cold, he was sitting there very cold, and he's like, oh, I'm freezing again, and then he thought, hey, why did he say cold was my teacher? And he reflected on it and thought about it. Eventually his mind became very still. And then all of a sudden he became warm. This energy from his navel chakra warmed his whole body. And then even if he sat out in the snow, the snow would melt all around him. and then the third was sitting there in his little shack and the winds were blowing and he thought that you know a tree branch or a tree would fall on him and hurt him and he was thinking what what is this this wind is my teacher and he reflected on the wind and he felt one with the wind became very still and the wind became still. And then the three of them eventually went back to the master and then the master says, only one who can endure great hardship can have a teacher. And then they went around together for traveling and having other adventures, but they became wise Taoist saints from their hardships. So we want to look at our hardships and then if you think it is bad, then reflect on it. Put your intent into compassion. Accept what your experience is. Learn from it and grow from it. You know, businesses have this ability as well. You can have this third point of mind training in business. And it's happened. There's many examples of it. It drives innovation, company culture and care, and businesses realize new revenue streams and higher ways of right livelihood through having caring compassion and learning from hardship. So for example, there is a company called Fujifilm made camera film, and they made a $4 billion business out of it by the end of the 90s. And so it was a very successful business. But in the early 2000s, digital cameras became very, very popular very quickly. And they began to very quickly disrupt the camera industry.

1:10:59
So people weren't just like buying film

1:11:02
and taking pictures on those old cameras. They were doing digital cameras. And then they started getting the cameras on the phones, the high quality, and then and then camera didn't, yeah, so the old camera film industry was going down fast. So the CEO of Fujifilm, I think Saito Takahashi. He sat down with his board and he was like very worried. He was very, very, very concerned about his company employees. He's like, I have a commitment to my employees. I want to keep them employed. I want us to be a strong company together. I don't want them to suffer. But we can see that this industry that we've been in since 1937 is suffering and changing. So they had a lot of capital. They were a very successful company. And then they put like most like 90% of their focus on R&D, learning new technologies. So they decided instead of focusing on the narrowing camera film market, we're gonna start going into like optical imaging and medical imaging. So they started looking into other areas, growing, learning. And then they were able to make a very kind of fast transition into these new industries. And they also had some focus on what they were good at, but that market went down. And then, you know, now they're a $38 million company with diverse technologies versus their greatest competitor, which was Kodak, which went out of business in 2012. So from concern and learning, businesses can change. Oh there's a there's another one. So now with the coronavirus, you know, you can't have meetings with groups of people. So there's a comedy club in New York. It's called the Caveat Comedy Club. And once, you know, the shelter in place order went out, they had to shut down. So their business was to invite comedians in and to, you know, make money off of it and give the comedians money too. So the owner was like, whoa, he's like, this is completely disruptive, you know, I'm losing all my money and all these comedians who are regulars, they're not going to make any money and we're losing our business. It's like, this is not a time for funny business. And so he was talking to a friend, worried about, he was worrying about the comedians. He's like, ah, these guys, I mean, we have a little bit of reserves, but these are just guys living off of each show. And then he came up with an idea, sharing with his friend this difficulty. And he started a live streaming service on their website, and he started a YouTube channel with an advertisement revenue model. And this way, he was able to make money for his comedy club, but also for each comedian who people watched, he would be able to share revenue with us. So when things get difficult, especially if you start from a place of caring for another, then very beautiful things can come out of that, that we can grow from, that we can learn from. You know, we have to kind of see the cycles of things, the cycles of nature. We have to be aware of, yeah, bad times happen, but then things come around, right? So, you know, we might be in the winter, but we shouldn't give up. Don't give up because it's difficult. Because the spring will come. I remember, I think it was last summer, I was walking around in Bodie Woods. Bodie Woods is a redwood forest. And I came across a big old tree, redwood tree. And this redwood tree had signs of burning. So the bark of the redwood tree is resistant to fire, but there's sometimes a little breach in the bark. And so the flames can get in there. So I saw that this one was through a fire, but it was a very old tree. So I asked, you know, I asked one of our neighbors who's been there for a long time, and he said, yeah, you know, a hundred years ago there was a fire that wiped out almost all the trees here. And I Later, they all grew back. So this is the way of life. There's creation. And there's destruction. And then there's creation again. There are these cycles. So when we are savvy to this, when we are aware that there are cycles, we don't have to freak out so much. We say, when a difficult time happens, it's not the end of the world. We have to be patient. We have to know that things will come around. We've got to see the big picture. So 102 years ago, there was another pandemic. It was called the Spanish flu. Wrongfully blamed on Spain. Because it started in America. So the Spanish flu killed millions of people. I think 30% of Americans caught it. So, the Spanish flu came and it was, you know, a huge deal, just like the coronaviruses. Now, DuPont is a Fortune 500 American company, chemical company and they're, I think they were like founded in like the late 1700s so this is an old and powerful American company but they almost went out of business in 1918 because they had this huge factory with thousands and thousands of workers, like 10,000 workers, working very close together. And then when the Spanish flu came, 30% of the employees caught it and were bedridden. And then they had to shut down the whole place. And Pierre Dupont said, all right, let's just try to ride this through. So he actually paid his employees, which was very nice. And for the period where there was a shutdown, where it was impossible to work, they barely made it through, but they did. And then the employees were able to come back to work and continue working. Okay, so then six months later, the Spanish flu came back for a second round. And then again, 30% of the employees got sick and then they had to shut down the business. And then Pierre Dupont, the president, he was like, hey, this happened before. And he's like, let's stick with the same plan. We're going to try to ride this through. And then they rode it through and he's like, okay, cool. And then guess what happened? There was a third cycle of the Spanish flu. It came around again and the same thing happened. But Pierre Dupont was like, I know what's going on. This is just how it goes. This is what you have to endure. This is what happens. So knowing the cycle of things helps you to not worry so much, to know that it's going to be okay. Yes, it's going to be bad. And then it's going to be okay. So understand, this has happened before. And then we also, you know, as a people, we survive. When hardships come, know the cycle of things. For the coronavirus, or for yourself, you gotta know.

1:22:05
Sometimes you gotta make shifts.

1:22:08
You have to make a shift in the way that

1:22:11
you're dealing with things.

1:22:13
And then you can be successful. So like, you have to look for new ways. So like when the coronavirus shuts down a, let's say a shampoo and makeup business, right? Then the shampoo and makeup business that was always giving the shampoo and the makeup business to beauty salons and hair salons, things like that, then they go, oh, we can't deliver it to the salons anymore. Let's try to give it to direct customers.

1:22:56
Did I tell you guys that story?

1:22:58
I don't know, I'll say it again.

1:22:59
So there was a woman running a business where she sold her, I think it was hair products, directly to hair salons. And that was her distribution. And then all the hair salons closed down. And then she started to work with the hairstylists who had customers. And the customers, even though they couldn't go to the hair salon, they might have wanted to have their hair look nice during the isolation period. So the hairstylist started making, she worked with them and said, hey, start making YouTube videos to your clientele, teaching them how to take care of their hair, sell them my products, and then we'll split it. So, you gotta go from one way to another. You go, you know, online. A lot of people are trying to figure out how to go online. So, it's a different way around. There's a certain way, and then you have to look for a new opportunity. It's like that in jiu-jitsu. So in jiu-jitsu, if someone's grappling, there's force, there's force, then you do a circle. Not staying on the same line, but covering a circle. And then they break the stress. So we can find different ways, different ways through, different ways around. There's always a way to be successful. Just have to open your awareness. Don't take a difficulty and go, oh it's horrible, because then your awareness closes. In business, they often call this a pivot. So business is doing something and then they realize, oh this isn't working. We have to do a pivot. So, one of my favorite pivot stories is a company called Slack. And Slack is a company that helps with communications amongst teams. So, Slack, they were founded as a video game company. They were making online video games, multi-users. And they were really into video games. I think the CEO had done a successful video game before and this was the second one. And they had so much funding and they were running out of it. They're down to like the last third. And the video game was not taking off like they thought it would. And they were having lots of technical problems. It just wasn't, it wasn't working out. So then the CEO said, you know what? Instead of this video game, we're gonna drop it. And there's this, they created a little utility where they didn't like doing emails because a lot of their things would get lost in emails. So they created a utility where the company could have different channels where they talked about different subjects. They were able to manage the teams and the communications and the company. And he said, that's very successful. Like we're doing well with that. And he's like, that's the new thing that we're going to set. And then that's when Slack became successful. Slack was born. That's a pivot. So that's where there's transformation. You got to do that in yourself. You can, you know, there's a great, there's a great transformative energy when you learn from difficulty. You don't just get squashed by difficulty. You can change, you can grow, it can be very different. I remember there was a gal, a student of my teacher, and she, when I first met her, she seemed to have like poor self-esteem. So she was really nice. And then at one point, you know, she decided to, you know, instead of get squashed by her negative thinking or ideas of the self and personal history, she decided to change, to take on the challenges and difficulties. And so she started taking karate and then she got a whole new wardrobe of more powerful professional clothing and she got a new haircut and and she just totally changed the way that she looked and she totally focused on karate. So she's a martial artist and she looked like a powerful business person and then she totally changed. And she, I remember she doubled her consulting rate in six months and she ended up getting black belt in karate. And she went from being a person who was doubtful and kind of, you know, low self-esteem to being a person with great personal power. So you can change, you can transform. Yes, and you know, even the art of war teaches about dealing with adversity, with compassion. This is very important. The art of war is about ending conflict in the most compassionate way. When you can follow the teachings of the art of war and execute them, it is always a way of compassion. So there's one of the teachings from Xuanzu in the Art of War is a very simple teaching on strategy, his first teaching on strategy. And that is, it is better to capture your enemy than to destroy them. I like how he just describes that. You know, let me teach you, just don't destroy your enemy. And so this is a good thing like, hey, it's better to capture them than to have to fight them and all that problem and destroy them. Even if you can do it, it's better to capture. So this is a wonderful example. So there was this general, he has many commentaries on the art of war. His name is General Ming and this is during the spring and autumn period and he was in the capital city of his state and they had the capital city had big stone walls all the way around it. And they were being attacked by an overwhelming force from the neighboring state, which was Wei. So, you know, they had these big strong walls, so General Ming was like, well, it'll be very hard for them to breach our walls. But the state of Wei came and they had this new manufactured thing called a call trap. And a call trap is, it's you know, those things that like throw big stones. And so Wei comes in and they start throwing these big stones start breaking the wall and then General Ming realizes if they keep this up eventually the walls will fall down. So he devises a plan and what he has actually is two walls. There's the outer wall and then the inner wall. And he finds a place where the wall's getting weak and he, from the inside, has his guys break the wall down. So, the state of way, their army says, oh look, we got in. So they run in, the whole army, most of the army gets in. And, and yet there's still an inner wall. And they were expecting that they were going to run in and meet the forces of, you know, General Ming and then have battle and then someone wins. But General Ming left all of his soldiers on top of the walls. And then when the majority of the army got in, then they had this big fire. Flames close off their escape. So they were stuck in between two walls. And then they had to... And then General Ming didn't attack them. They just waited. They're all, hey, we got bow and arrows and stuff, how's it going? And then eventually the state of Wei's army just surrendered. So this is a way of winning, capturing versus destroying. They could have attacked them and destroyed them, but they just let them realize there's no more, there's nothing to fight, the fight is over. So the art of war also shows ways of compassion dealing with overwhelming challenges. Now this reminds me of the Lojong teaching. So there's a slogan in the mind training, and the slogan is, three objects, three poisons, three seeds of virtue. So, the objects are attachment, aversion, and ignorance. The poisons are when you engage in those objects, you create poison. This means that it poisons your awareness field. It creates an unhealthy effect in your and then the three seeds of virtue. It means that those objects and those poisons can be a way of enlightenment. It can be a way of awakening. It can be a way of compassion. So the three poisons are these things that are said to be what drives samsaric existence. Like in the wheel of dharma, where we have the different levels of consciousness, the different levels of experience, whether you're a human, an animal, a god, you're living in a samsaric condition and at the very center, so if you ever see a thangka, at the very center they've got these three little animals, pig, snake, and rat. And they represent what drives samsaric conditions of living. And those are the three poisons, attachment, aversion, That's what makes people have suffering. That's what keeps you limited. That's what stops you from having enlightened consciousness. So in Bodhicitta, we're able to use a very powerful, very magical Bodhicitta teaching to transform those great delimiters of attention to seeds of virtue, to an engine of liberation

1:37:38
So

1:37:40
I'd like to tell you this very powerful teaching this teaching I

1:37:45
call

1:37:47
Containment it's not an attainment. It's a containment. Okay, so This is whenever This is whenever you recognize in yourself negative thinking, disturbing emotions, doubt, confusion, jealousy, anger, depression, all negative thoughts are somehow driven from the three poisons. Whenever these come up in your awareness, then you practice taking and sending. But here's suffering. And you contain it so that all beings can be free from it. This is a very powerful thing. So let's say that you had anger. If you have an anger, you go, oh, I'm angry. I don't feel good. I have some attachment to an idea which is what makes me feel angry. And when you have that anger, you say, you know what? Many beings suffer from anger. But I'm going to feel that vibration of anger. I'm going to take that whole thing, in me. So that all beings who have that anger, I'm going to contain that anger in me, so that they can be free of the anger. So I am accepting, through my inhalation, all of the anger in the universe. I'm containing it. And then I exhale light to all beings who have anger, so that they can be liberated. It's a very powerful teaching containing maybe it's a sadness, you know, sadness from a relationship or something, and you say, if this hurts me, I'm going to have the intent to contain all of the suffering of all the beings who have this. I'm going to contain it. I'm going to take it. So this containment practice is very, very powerful. Now you have to recognize that in this time of the coronavirus we start to have a greater sense of our connection with others. You start to get a different dimensional view, because everyone in the world, you know, is on this, you know, shelter in place, isolation, social distancing. We're all working on this. Everybody in the world is feeling a fear or an anxiety. Many in the world are suffering economically. So we start to see a deeper connection because of the suffering that we're going through, the difficulties, the hardships. And when you can start seeing different dimensions of how we're so connected and experiencing the same things, the whole world, you start to grow in your awareness. So this powerful teaching of containment is realizing that we all are coming from the same place, we're all in the same condition. We're all people, humans. We all have attachments, versions, ignorance. We all get angry, we all get sad. We see it in this time of connection, we can see it more deeply, know it that it's a greater truth, that it is real. We have a greater empathy, care, and awareness of the suffering of the people on our planet. And so with this realization, you can see in containment that if you have a bad feeling, bad thoughts, if you feel suffering, you can see in a deeper, more profound way that many

1:43:12
people do.

1:43:15
And with your intention, you hold that whole feeling and accept it yourself so that others can be free. This is an excellent practice. to sit with you in a consideration of deeper connection with all beings, deeper connection and a demonstration of containment— the energy of containment,

1:43:59
the transmission of containment—

1:44:02
so that anything that you come up with that is suffering, painful, hardship in yourself, you can have the intent to take and hold away from others because others have it. You can free them from it. You can contain anger just in your heart. Just let it melt and let light go to others so they're free from anger. This is a So I'd like you to sit up nice and straight. And we're going to sit for one song and this is the transmission of containment so that you can have that power to hold any suffering, any bandwidth of suffering, you take it so others can be free.

1:45:16
Okay, let's begin. ♪♪ the the so so You the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you

1:46:33
Very nice. So, these mind training practices of compassion, very powerful spiritual practices. This is where we start to transcend just our limited mental awarenesses. So in the very first teaching on Bodhicitta, I taught the four steps. You know, who you can have some compassion for. Then you grow it to a few more people, then a bunch of people, and eventually, you grow beyond how many people you can think of in your head. So you're like, my whole city, I don't know everybody in my city, my whole state, my whole country, the whole world. You start to break into a second attention awareness greater than what you can just logically hold in your mind. It's a very powerful spiritual attention to break into a greater second attention awareness and have compassion. And then this is the second step. Once you can do that, then you start working on that containment exercise, where you feel something and you can take it from everyone and have it and hold it and dissolve it in your heart and give everyone light. So we learn very, very powerful spiritual powers. And you got to practice. So your homework this month is containment. If you have a bad feeling or find suffering within you, take it so that others can be free. And learn it because this is like math. Like you gotta like get the basics and then the next part, but this keeps going higher and higher and higher. There's more techniques. And these are powerful spiritual second attention techniques. So just keep up, practice. And even if you don't think you're good at it, if you're practicing it, you're learning. So I'd like to thank you all very much. It was practicing it, you're learning. So I'd like to thank you all very much. It was wondrous being with you today. Be well and I'll see you soon.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
