0:00:00
We're going to begin with meditation, so the Kalachakra meditation.

0:00:07
Ah hum ohm. Ah hum ohm.

0:00:09
We're going to sit in silence and we'll sit for probably about 10 minutes. So strong focus.

0:00:16
So if my hand is straight.

0:00:17
Let's begin.

0:00:18
I'm going to do it like that.

0:00:20
Okay.

0:00:21
Ready? Okay. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get started. Okay. Okay. So I've been inviting small groups of advanced students over to the Dharma Villa, the backyard, and I've been working on correcting your Kala Chakra your Kalachakra meditation technique. I'm doing this because I think that with these corrections you can advance your meditation and you can come to mastery and enlightenment So, Rama taught us the Kalachakra, and then he died shortly after that. So he didn't hang

0:02:02
around and correct us very much. He just said, do it right. So year one and two, I was kind of practicing. Year one, you're really just kind of getting used to the practice. You're just getting used to sitting there and focusing on the four dimensions at the same time on each chakra, right? You're just getting used to it. Year two is where you get kind of, you should be getting kind of solid through the whole year. More solid in the practice. Year two to three is where it turns into super magical. So what I'm doing is I'm skipping year two. Getting you from year two to three, so that within a year, you know, you could be enlightened and you should be if you follow these teachings. It's not that hard, right? When I make the corrections, you get the correction correct, you get it right, and you just practice it. And I think that it's been very successful so far with the groups that I've met. So I will continue to meet with groups of people and look at each one of you, see where your meditation is at, and make corrections. If you can't make it in person, it's still good to zoom into the call, because the corrections I make for the people I'm sitting with in person are things that we all practice and we all refine. So someone might have a broken heart chakra, and you might have an okay one, but we still fix theirs and you learn to fix. And then maybe someone has the same problem with you. Broken throat, you're all, ugh, I can't breathe.

0:09:07
I can't breathe because my throat chakra's stuck.

0:09:10
And I'm all, oh, here's how you fix it.

0:09:12
And you're all, oh, oh, good. So I might do that for somebody else. And then that correction is what will also help for you. So if the only thing that you can do is zoom in, then zoom in. But if you can meet me in person, then that's where I sit with you. And just by sitting with you, I'm a meditation teacher. And I'm a very advanced expert in this technique. So I can see where you're at, give you corrections. And so the corrections that I'm giving are things that I really kind of figure it out in year two to three. But it's funny, because I talked to like Kundalini and Ananda, Mandala, Sananda, you know, and we all came up with these same things. We're all like, oh yeah, at some point I had to re-correct the heart chakra, the thing

0:10:10
that had the spooks in it.

0:10:11
It was a little off, then I cleared it up. You know, just things like that. And so these things, these structures, these observations are things that I doped out, just like by practicing, and that others have as well, other teachers. So we'll continue to do this for a while. Okay, but today we're going to talk about tantric sex and the deeper aspects of teaching. So Rama said you cannot talk about enlightenment or the Kalachakra without talking about sex. So in the Kalachakra, he taught us Tantric sex. He taught us what I call the Tantric skeleton. He said, if I'm going to teach you Tantra, the tantric celibate, which means that you do Tantra for real, but you don't do it having sex. So that's the transmission that I can is the reconciling the opposites. And when most people have sex or think about sex,

0:12:05
it's separate.

0:12:06
Even when they have sex, they're having fun, feels good or whatever. There might be some connection, but there's also in a spiritual level, not separation. And Rama said that unless you're in very advanced stages of practice, or enlightened, that when you're having sex, it's all sorts of frustrations and problems. It creates more attachment, it creates more ideas, it creates more self and all this stuff, and then the person that you were with, that you had a fun time with, all of a sudden you're divorcing them and getting into a legal battle, you know, all that stuff, right? You create self. That's what happens for most people. But Tantra is where the opposites become one. So we practice this in the mind. So Rama said, you have to be able to reconcile the opposites at a very, very deep level, which is sexually, in order to be enlightened. So this happens surely in meditation, in the Kala Chakra technique. You'll get to a point where the sexes become one, where everything becomes one. But for human beings, for people, with your conditioning, your karma, it's a very difficult thing. Very difficult thing. What will happen is you'll get your Kundalini up and then you won't be able to go into Samadhi because you have a conflict, unless you work it out through meditation. And it won't even seem like a man and woman, it'll just be like some intensity and then you'll go finally through it. So you can do it with a technique, but Rama gave us this advanced teaching as a way to face it directly, fix it in our being so that in our meditation we go into Samadhi posture. Sarama said, sex is not bad. People are so confused about sexuality. so bothered, so jealous, so desirous, so attached, and all of that creates egotism. So you must overcome that. Because that will prevent you from enlightenment completely. If that's where you get stuck, that's a bad place to get stuck. And if that's where you have to be ruthless, that's where you have to go beyond it. But you have to reconcile it.

0:15:23
Somebody entered a waiting room. Should I admit them?

0:15:26
I don't know what's going on. Little sign came up. SangaZoom meeting has entered the waiting room for this meeting. See waiting room? Admit. What do

0:15:43
I do? You can't leave it there.

0:15:45
What?

0:15:46
You can't leave it there.

0:15:47
Get out of here! Okay. Who's at these things? Okay. So, first of all, sex. That's why you're here. No, yeah, you wouldn't not be here if there wasn't sex. So sex can't be at all that bad. You're here because of it. It's not a bad thing. People get so confused. In Tantra, this male and female energy, they come together. And they are one in union. And when we do the Tantric celibate awareness, it's not physical, it's spiritual. spirit, then you can resolve it in your meditation. Physical sex tends to bring out the worst in you, so it's important to resolve it spiritually and then in your meditation. And then if you have sex, then to observe the spiritual awareness that you have in the physical act so that it doesn't create attachment to all sorts of ideas. So in Tantra, Rama created this powerful school of Tantra and he created magical structures of Tantra. One of the magical structures of Tantra that he created was that he had sex with women. He had sex with his women students. That creates a tantra in the whole Sangha. It's actually a tremendous blessing or a tremendous enlightened spiritual teaching for women. That's why Rama said he had a big focus on the enlightenment for women. Him having sex with some of his students created a powerful enlightening teaching for women. Now, some women got very angry and jealous and stuck because of this teaching. It's because they had ideas, conditioning, the karmas that were very limited and they were very stuck and attached in that. But there were other women who were able to become enlightened faster because of these teachings. So people would say, Rama has sex with some student and then that's bad, that makes me mad, I go into all my karma, I go into all my feelings, attachments, personal history or whatever. But it's actually a very profound teaching that he has sex with students. Women. Because this is a tantra. This creates in the whole school a tantric teaching. And it's a tantric teaching for men too, but it's much more powerful for women because he was a man. And then the women. And then that's a tantric teaching. And a profound one. But most people looked at it in a very weird way. So I remember when I first became a student, he was very open about having sex. And I remember there were men and women who got so frustrated, new students, they got so frustrated that they quit because they thought it was wrong and bad and all these weird thoughts. I'm like, okay, quit, you weirdos. But there is a teaching in it. It's a tantric teaching. And it's a tantric teaching of getting over— not getting over sexuality, but it is the unity, the unity of the male and the female energies. And that is a very deep, very profound tantra. It's deep enough and powerful enough to get you to face sexuality and to deal with it. So, there are some women who even got the advanced teachings completely hung up on Brahma's sexuality. Just completely bothered by it, completely stuck in their weird karma, completely stuck. And I guess that's why they want to be stuck. But there are other teachers like Sahaja, or enlightened women like Sahaja or Mandala, who were able to solve this in their mind. And when they saw them in their mind, they recognized that what Rama was doing was creating a powerful Tantra in his whole sangha. This tantra was a very powerful teaching for men and women, but a very powerful teaching for women. His tantra was something that was completely beautiful, completely outside of social conditioning, outside of people's personal ideas about sex and power and relationship and all the bullshit that people think and their personal hurts and desires and attachments, his Tantra makes you face all of that. And then in facing that, that's where you can reconcile the opposites. But if you can't face it, I mean, I know advanced students who are so hung up on rama sexuality and they can't figure it out, so they're all frustrated and all angry and all bothered and they stop their enlightenment right there. I'm like, oh, okay, that's weird. But it's a teaching. It's a powerful teaching. So many of them are all like, Rama was wrong. And he messed everybody up. And he did something bad. I'm like, no, that's just you. Definitely not Rama. That's you. And I'm like, yeah, okay. You're stuck on that thing. But this teaching of the Tantra is where in your mind and in your heart you've got to resolve this. You've got to resolve this. So I do this teaching too. I follow Brahma's I'm not a virgin. It's true. Rama was said to have had sex a lot though, with a lot of women. But I have had sex, I'm not a virgin. And so I also have these structures. And so it could bother people, people can get confused, but it's really, I work with a very similar tantric structure. So, I think it's funny though, because I was like, I was like, yeah, yeah, I've had sex with couples of my students. And then everyone's all, oh, God, terrible, I can't believe it, Sampara. And then, and it's like, Shiva has a long time partner that he's been with for years. And they're all, oh, that's cool. Oh, Abhikala, yeah, he's got, you know, girlfriend for many years. You know, 20 years, now they're married. And you guys are all, it's cool. Mandala, been together, she's married now, everyone's all cool. Maat, married with children, oh, that's cool. Gangaji, you know, like anyone else, totally fine. Sambara, god damn it! You know why? Because I have a structure for you that you're in. It's called Tantra, and set it up perfectly, just like Ramadhan. So, if I can bother you with this, then great, because this gets you to face something very deep, very, very deep karma. But it's not, like sex is not sexual, the way that you guys think about it. I mean it is, but it's not the way that you think about it. The way that you think about it is very, very, very, very aligned with karmas and deep, deep karmas. Deep, deep karmas. So what you gotta do is you have to learn the tantra and then that will resolve these very deep karmas. Isn't that great? It is. Yeah. So, um, I hope you've read the book Highest Yoga Tantra. If you haven't, you should read it. And if you really want to work on resolving your deep karmas, maybe read it again and and note the places of Tantra that you recognize from this teaching this transmission Since those are the places we go. Aha Now high yoga tantra doesn't say anything about attachment and weird social ideas It's it's talking about higher awarenesses, very, very, very high astral dimensions that you connect with, like high causal dimensions that you connect with. It talks about attainments and it talks about So Tantra is very, very little about physical sexuality. It's 98% spiritual. So in the Kala Chakra, we have this Kala Chakra deity or Bodhisattva, and the Kala Chakra Bodhisattva is there with her consort, some guy. Right, it's a man and woman embraced in tantric sex. So this image is something that you need to look at. You need to take in. And you need to find an image of it that you resonate with. I remember Ananda, one time we went and had a satsang with him. He was the first, or one of the first, of Rama students to become liberated. And he found a little postcard at a bookstore, and he thought that that Kala Chakra picture was the best, so he gave one to all of us. And he was explaining why he felt it was very powerful. I was like, okay, cool. And he was just like, you know, he's like, you need to look into the eyes of the Kala Chakra, look into both of their eyes and see. And I was like, okay, wow, ooh. But you have to get the feeling for the Kala Chakra deity. And when I do it, I see the deity. I've looked at pictures of it. You also have the Kala Chakra initiation or empowerment, which has this deity in it. It's a very powerful symbol. And you can see it in your mind. And you might see it in your mind in a very clear way, but there's some very, very important aspects to be aware of. One is their eyes, their face, they're close together in their eyes.

0:30:06
They have lots of faces,

0:30:08
but that connection of their eyes is something very important to be aware of first. Second is their embrace. There are many arms But it all comes into a powerful embrace it's a connection and Then there's sex to the their genitals together and That's a very very powerful connection that comes up to the embrace, which is like the heart, and it comes up to the third eye, or the higher chakras. These are the things to be aware of. And it's something that in seeing this and feeling it, you're able to actually go into this sense of unity. And then when you're practicing your Kalachakra meditation, you don't even think about this, but after resolving this sex thing, your meditation is stronger. You're able to go beyond the self more easily because you're not hung up extremely deep, deep karma. That's why Rama gave us this additional support of the Tantric empowerment. So, we're going to just close our eyes. We're going to work on the visualization of their faces together, their eyes together, like they're looking at each other, there's a contact there. Okay, then we're going to come down to the embrace, and you want to feel that unity. Then we come down to the sexual organs in union, and that's power. That's a very powerful Okay, so we're going to come from the top and down. Alright, so we're just going to sit, and I'm going to start us off with eyes, then I'll say embrace, then I'll say genitals, then I'll say hi-yah! And no focus on chakra, just see in your mind's eye the kala chakra, the eyes, the faces, together. Let's begin.

0:33:33
Okay. Now come to the embrace. Okay. Thank you. I'll come down to the general. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So when you do this practice, you are not pretending to be one of the sexes with the other sex. You're both. The connection, the

0:37:49
union. So I noticed I was watching a movie, we were in the theater, and there was this beautiful woman who was getting kissed by some handsome guy. And then I noticed that the guys were looking at the woman because she was so pretty. So they were all like, like kissing her. And the girls were looking at the guy. And they were like, oh, like kissing him because he's pretty, or she's pretty. So they were pretending, or they were directing their desire to being kissed, or kissing the person that they were attracted to. This is in that, because that binds you up in karmas. So this is where you connect with the union, the union of their faces, their kiss together. And there's many dimensions in that, but it's very, very close, very beautiful. And then the union of the embrace. It's very, very, very beautiful, very powerful. That's the heart. And then the union of the energy of the genitals coming together. The sex. The union of it. Not you feel that you're doing one part or the other, but they're both together. So this is a very profound teaching. And this is a teaching that when you take it to heart and you experience a profound aspect of male and female energy merging together, the essence of the yin and yang merging together and being one. It's beyond the karmas of sex. It's beyond your personal history of sex, your ideas of sex, power in this physical world and imbalances of power of sex. It's beyond the karmas of sex. Drop the ideas of karma of sex, your views of sex, and reorient your view of sex in this reality, this meditation, where the sexual male and female energy come together and resolve. in your heart that yin and yang are one, that even the most intense karmas of desire and attachment fall away, and all there is is unity. So then you don't have to react in karma and samskara. You can act in a way of unity. So this is very important. It's something to take to heart. If it's something that you get bothered by, it creates an extreme karma that will block you from liberation. So you can consider this in many ways. This is a very, very deep transmission. You can consider it in sitting meditation and you can consider it in your second attention. This is a strong support. Now, besides this, just in the Kalachakra meditation, then you're able to, you'll get your Kundalini up and then you'll hit that roadblock and then eventually you'll resolve those energies in your mind and then you won't have that problem when you look out in the world and see a man or a woman. So eventually, through meditation, you'll get through this. But this is a special transmission for you to work on. Ta-da! Deeper aspects of teaching. So, it's important to know Tantra, to be able to teach well. Because when you're dealing with people, you have to be able to deal with their deepest karmas. If you're going to teach, if you want to be of service to people in a profound way, you've got to know where they're coming from. And you have to know their deepest karmas. surface, talking to somebody about surface stuff, then yeah, you could be helpful a little bit. But if you want to be of the most assistance to someone, and they might be talking to you about a little subject. Maybe they're talking to you about getting a job or raising their rate or anything, right? But if you can see the deepest palmas in them, then you can say one little thing that's very powerful for them. But if you only see the surface of people, you might say tons of things that are powerful, and it won't affect them very much. So the deepest karmas of the people you're trying to teach. You have to see where they're coming from. You have to see their karmas in a very deep way. You have to see their past lives. You have to see their karmas, their samskaras. You have to see their energetic trajectory. You have to be able to read their aura, read their mind. mind and being able...so if you can solve in your mind sexuality, if for you sexuality is where the opposites are in union, then you're in balance. Then you can actually look in and see someone else. But if you're out of balance, if you're like at the core, I think this, and I'm attached to this, and I have all this stuff going on. And when you look at someone else, you can't see. You're not still enough. You're not at peace. So then when you're looking at someone, you're going to have all your weird thoughts, and it's going to obscure your view, and then you look and really see someone, see where they're at. And even if you haven't resolved all your karmas, the deeper aspects of teaching are to really, really, really look to see where someone's I remember there was this one, ST2, and let's see, when was it? Oh yeah, so Rama gave us this empowerment to do intro and beginning teaching. And this was probably in 1996. So we had been students for, I don't know, like four years or something like that. And then, what I did was I was going to, coming back to California on business, so then I got this group of musicians that I used to teach, and I started teaching them meditation and it was really fun. And then there was this one guy. I went to his class. He said, hey, I'm teaching in Greenwich. You want to see my class? And I'm like, yeah, OK. And so I showed up. And then five or six people came.

0:46:38
And he was just all excited. And he's just going off.

0:46:42
He's like, OK, so in the Bhagavad Gita, it says this. And in the Book of the Dead, it says that. And he's going off all over the place. He's very excited and he's talking about things that nobody's read, the things that he's interested in, all over these high ideas and not defining anything, just saying words, spiritual terms, and the students are so confused. So, he was He was not seeing where they were at. He was just talking about what was interesting and exciting and uplifting for him. So while it was a class of very high energy and a lot of interesting insights if you knew those teachings and those books, but it was way over the heads of the people who came. So they never came back. So it wasn't very helpful for them. So it's very important when you're doing teaching to resolve in yourself your karma so that you are in a clear place of seeing. And then when you're going to help help someone, whether it's yoga leading, meditation teaching, intro, beginning, martial arts, anything. Whenever you're going to be working with someone, you have to be still, be clear, see where they're coming from, so that you can have precise energy, words, teaching, to actually help them. So, there's, these are the advanced teachings teachings. Because these are the teachings It's beyond introduction, it's beyond beginning, and it really, I mean, you can use it in the beginning for sure, but it's really where you can have a powerful effect in teaching someone in the intermediate stage. And when you have mastery of this, then this is also where you can teach people in the advanced stages. Because in the advanced stages, that's where people start to get to the deepest, deepest karmas of the Self. And when you can resolve those karmas within yourself, then when you're working with other people, you can be of assistance. You can be very, very, very helpful or useful. I remember when I was close to enlightenment, I'd been meditating very strongly. I was really, really going for it. But I had a place where I had a hang-up, and it was a fear. And I went to some of Kundalini's songs, and I was sitting with Kundalini afterwards having dinner and she was just like, you have to face your fear. And I'm like, uh-uh. She just had such a clear seeing, and she pointed it out so clearly to me and showed me the way out, just by saying, yes, you can do it. And just in her mind, she had resolved herself, and she was able to show me and point to me a way out of a condition where I was stuck. So that's, you know, a very, very, that was a very advanced teaching for me, and it got me to face very deep karma, very deep samsara, and to overcome it. So when you can be clear, when you can be still and see where someone's coming from, you can give them the right teaching that will empower them. You give them the right teaching that definitely, significantly affects them positively and they move up. Very good. I guess that's it for now. I've got some other fun stuff. But basically, go fuck yourself. And then figure it out. And if you don't figure it out, then go fuck yourself.

0:51:51
All right. Thank you. Thank you.

0:51:53
1




Transcribed with Cockatoo
