0:00:00
Welcome to the fast path. This is called the fast path to enlightenment. You see, there's two schools of thought about liberation. One school of thought is that it takes forever. The other school of thought is that you could become enlightened in one lifetime. That is in one lifetime. That is called the fast path. The gradual path or the slow path is that you take some time, you gain a little bit of merit, you don't push it too hard, let sleeping dogs lie. And little by little, you gain some merit, then in another lifetime, meet an enlightened teacher, go a little further. So little by little you climb the mountain to enlightenment. And then the fast path is going straight up. Straight up.

0:01:03
And that means that you go for it. You say, all right, I want enlightenment, I want enlightenment and whatever it takes, I'm going to face what I need to face, do what I need to do, and I'm going to attain enlightenment in this life. So this is a school that offers that opportunity. So we are going to get into gear and we're going to start where I would normally We're going to start where I would normally end, which is going to be the intermediate initiation. The Bodhicitta teachings are actually intermediate teachings. With the Bodhicitta teachings, there's the assumption that you have a dedicated meditation practice.

0:02:00
a dedicated meditation practice. If you don't have a sitting meditation practice, then bodhicitta is just an interesting concept. So bodhicitta must have that component of ultimate bodhicitta or meditation, where you have a sitting meditation practice. You have that discipline and you're practice. You have that discipline and you're still in your mind because you have to be able to have that deep level of introspection that comes from sitting meditation in order to see the true dimensions and depths of compassion. So, you know, usually I'll spend a year or spend a year or two or three focusing on just meditation, developing your personal power, developing your career. But now I'm just like shoving it all together. I'm like, shove it together. It's like, do it all at the same time. And don't be overwhelmed. Because you because you have time. But if you want to go fast, you can go fast. All of you who've been practicing bodhicitta, this is an intermediate practice. If you're weak on your morning and evening meditation, then that's something to strengthen, because there's really no skipping If you just said, all right, I've got my bodhicitta, what's next? Okay, I'm going to get the advanced teachings and then I'll forget the meditation part and forget the compassion part, just go for the enlightenment part. Well, you have to have the proper foundation. So even though you might learn multiplication and fractions at the same time, I don't know, it's dog fractions at the same time. I don't know. It's something that might build upon each other. You have to be good at everything. You have to do your basics. I remember this amazing Shotokan karate school I used to go to. The guys at this dojo were the best fighters.

0:04:24
the best fighters. They won all the tournaments. And I wondered why, because I heard this for a long time. My teacher sent his black belts to train there. And we were training there, and all we would do is basics. And I'm like, boy, this is boring. And I was just watching them do basics, and I'm like, I could probably beat all these guys. And then we went to a Then we went to a tournament and I saw them actually fighting these amazing fighters, the top black belts of the school, and they beat them with basics. It was really amazing. So you've got to have your basics. You could be the best of the best, but you've got to Basics gives you the foundation. Meditation is the foundation of all practice. So you have to be strong in your meditation, strong in your mindfulness. And then when you add bodhicitta, there's amazing dimensions. And then when you go on to the advanced teachings, So tonight I'm bored, so I'm going to talk about advanced Buddhism. My teacher used to always say, even when we were really new, he's like, you might be a beginner, but I'm teaching advanced Buddhism. So this is advanced Buddhism for the cows. So for all of my students, So, for all of my students, even if you're a very, very, very new student, all of the teachings that we've been going through are the teachings of compassion, the teachings of bodhichitta. These are intermediate teachings. So I'm going to give you the intermediate initiation.

0:06:24
Now, later this evening, I'm going to be giving another initiation, and that's for the existing intermediate students. We're going to go to this level we call Bodon. Bodon in our martial arts and our jiu-jitsu is the black belt candidate. So, the existing intermediate students are going to go to this new level with greater empowerment, additional spiritual teachings, and a lot more momentum. You see, I was sitting around meditating today while you guys were swimming in the lake and watching fairies, fairy watching. And I saw this big thing. It came from the mountain and from enlightenment and from nirvana and somewhere else. A big thing. And the big thing thing, and the big thing is enlightenment and nirvana and somewhere else. So it's a new day in a new way. So for those of you who are beginners, now you're intermediate.

0:08:00
And for those of you who are intermediate, now you're going to Bodhan level. That's where you get serious, serious practice. So I'm going to start with the intermediate initiation. a time that it gives you additional dimensions, empowerment. I always call it like a little tool case. It's like, oh, you know, you start with your basic tools, you know, you get a wrench and a hammer, and then you get your intermediate tools, which is like duct tape, which is pretty Intermediate program is all about duct tape. So more tools are the tool for everything. So it's not something that is too much at all. It won't overwhelm you. You've actually been going through the teachings for it, even if you've only been through a couple of them. a couple of them. Even if you're quite new, you've done just fine, you're here, you've passed the test of power, and we're going to just open up more possibilities. You've got to do your basics. You're responsible for the foundation of your practice. But this practice. But this gives you more opportunity. If you want to go fast, you can go faster.

0:09:43
If you don't want to go fast, you don't have to go faster. It's just that you've got the duct tape. It's an option. All right, so we're going to sit for one song, and we're going to focus on the navel chakra. And for intermediate students and advanced students, you've already been through this. intermediate students and advanced students, you've already been through this, just nice meditation. Observe it the second time or third time or fourth time. And just, you know, like, oh yeah, I remember that. That was cute. Yes, I remember when we had that initiation. So this is, it's good to see teachings over and over, you know, on your way to a black belt, way to a black belt, you see many other people get the belts that you've gotten before. And seeing it again and again makes you have greater tonal, greater mastery.

0:10:38
And for those of you who are getting the intermediate initiation for the first time, just still your mind. It doesn't have to be completely still. Don't worry. So the good news about completely still, don't worry. So the good news about this is that you don't have to do anything because it is a transmission from me to you and I know what I'm doing. So just relax. It's the equinox. Relax. Alright, so focus on the navel, relax your mind, no worries, it for one song. Let's begin. the the the the the the the Thank you.

0:12:48
Thank you. So. So, So, So, you you Very nice. Very, very nice. ST5s, the fast pathway to enlightenment. So now you're intermediate students, but don't let that hold you back. So this is the school of enlightenment and enlightenment can happen So, there are ST5s who were even beginning students who entered the enlightenment cycle.

0:16:38
The enlightenment cycle begins with going into samadhi. This is a very, very high spiritual high spiritual state of consciousness, an awareness of being one with everything, but like in this massively profound ecstatic way. So, things are very hierarchical here. We have structures, but it's like sometimes a white belt walks into a dojo and has no problem It's like sometimes a white belt walks into a dojo and has no problem doing a jumping, spinning hook kick. So that's always welcome. Always welcome. Now Leila's big statement about enlightenment is, don't wait. statement about enlightenment is, don't wait. Don't sit there and put things in front of you like, oh, I have to do this first. I didn't even learn to program yet. I can't be enlightened.

0:17:48
Why not? You can be going through any lesson at any point. You could be going through very beginner stages and enter the enlightenment cycle. So there's nothing holding you back. cycle. So there's nothing holding you back. I remember when I was with my teacher, there were some brand new students like me who experienced samadhi. I was like, wow, really? Wow, that's amazing. I was very, very inspired. At the time, I couldn't meditate very well. I really very, very inspired. At the time, I couldn't meditate very well. I really struggled with meditation. So when they were like, yeah, I had this meditation and it dissolved into light and I was everything and everything was me, I was like, wow. So it happens. Enlightenment in a weird time. People are so angry, so selfish. So this is a time of great confusion and maya, a very, very heavy illusion. However, enlightenment is the truth of everything, whatever loka whatever loka you're in, even if this were, you know, a hell world, enlightenment still exists. No matter what difficulties we experience, whatever hardships, enlightenment is beyond the transient. The transient has good and bad, ups and downs, pleasure and pain, but pleasure and pain. But no matter where you go in the universe, enlightenment is the essence of all things. Whether you're an expert or a beginner, whether you've been here for 20 years or two days, enlightenment exists. Enlightenment is within you. Enlightenment is the truth of being. And so, And so, don't wait. Don't hold yourself back. Let it happen. Don't say, oh, I am but a beginner.

0:20:11
That's good in Zen, beginner's mind. So it's something that happens. The enlightenment even beginner students. Now advanced students. The advanced students, see this is why in Zen they say beginner's mind is really good because then when you get advanced you're like, oh well, I know what's wrong now. I'm so advanced, I know everything about what's wrong. So the advanced So the advanced students, there's a really wonderful thing. So today I saw the fast path. Enlightenment opened this big hunk of compassion plopped out of the mountain and I saw it and I was like, whoa, that's great. That's great. And then it was like, oh, fast path. Yeah. You know, intermediate students, you know, beginning students, enlightenment, enlightenment cycle, enlightenment. What's in your wallet? And, and so for advanced students, here's the good news. Enlightenment. Why not?

0:21:36
here's the good news, enlightenment. Why not? So I'll tell you all the good news about the advanced teachings. The advanced teachings are not that difficult, they're not that different than the beginning teachings. The advanced teachings are very simple. If you do them, you will become enlightened. The thing is that people stop doing them, they get confused people stop doing them, they get confused. And there's a confusion going around with some of the advanced students. So I'm here to take care of that, relieve you of this confusion, and remind you of that very simple thing. If you practice the advanced teachings, you will become enlightened. the advanced teachings, you will become enlightened. It's wonderful. Enlightenment is not some big, heavy thing. It's actually quite a light thing. It's a very lightening thing. It's not called So, it's funny because when you get the advanced teachings, you could start getting into this like heaviness. You're like, I have to have my enlightenment. I have my burden and I must unload it. I must figure out something impossible to figure out. Nothing works. It's Nothing works. It's impossible. And then I'm like, yeah, just do the advanced teachings.

0:23:23
Yes, I will. It's impossible. That's what you guys do. You're like, okay, I'm going to sit there and do it and it's impossible. It's impossible. My mantra is, it's impossible. is it's impossible. It doesn't work. Of course it does. Yeah, so the good news is we come from a successful school of enlightenment and there are many enlightened teachers in come from this same structure of teachings. And it's really wonderful. It's kind of like, you know, a lot of the spiritual schools you go to are kind of like going into a dojo where there's a couple green belts and a purple belt, and maybe the sensei has a brown belt. And you're like, wow! And they still know some karate and stuff. But this is a school where there was a very high degree master and high degree black belts, many black belts. that you can do it too, because you can follow their patterns. If you walk into a dojo where there's no black belts, you say, well, and sensei goes, yeah, there's this thing called a black belt, you might get it someday. It's kind of funny. But if you're in a dojo where there are black belts, then you say, yeah, okay, so this is possible. You can look at This is what a black belt is. When there's a school of many black belts, it's a repeatable pattern. The discipline works. So dance students, don't be so heavy and ponderous. The pathway to enlightenment, it should be fun. I mean, yes, there's some kind of intense stuff you I mean, yes, there's some kind of intense stuff you have to deal with. Like if you have fear, if you have negative thinking, it's time to let it go. And by letting it go, you're much happier. So on the advanced path, that's where you start to say, hey, you know what?

0:26:00
I've been angry for 2364 incarnations. Maybe it's time to let that shit go. And then once you do, you say, wow, why didn't I do that a long time ago? I'm much happier. Why was I hanging on to that? So that's where you have to, you know, if you want enlightenment, you start to look at that. So there's some hard work in doing that sometimes, because So there's some hard work in doing that sometimes because sometimes you just cherish that stuff. You're like, I've been holding on to it for so long, but it hurts, but I keep holding on to it. And so, you know, you have to let go of these attachments, attached views, and there could be a lot of hardship in it, but if there is, great!

0:26:50
Let it be hard. it. But if there is, great! Let it be hard. Allow it to be hard. Allow it to be difficult. Allow it to be painful and enjoy it as your pathway to enlightenment. That's the story of your pathway to enlightenment. I like to say, Milarepa, he had a hard time. He goes over to Marpa and he has to build a bunch of towers and it's back-breaking work, very and back-breaking work, very difficult. He was suffering so much doing it. And then he did it, burned off a lot of karma. And then he was like, wow, that's my pathway to enlightenment. And it's inspiring for us to learn about that. So your difficulties that you're facing, they're so bad, take it on, accept it, open your heart to it, because that is your story of enlightenment and then that's something that becomes very, very inspiring for others.

0:27:49
Yeah, so I say the pathway to enlightenment should be happy and exciting and uplifting. And, it's guaranteed, enlightenment guaranteed. There's this great movie, it's a German film and it's called Enlightenment Guaranteed. Maybe we'll watch it sometime. It's really funny. They have fun adventures. So I realized that there's a lot that I can do to help you today. I realized what the opportunity is for advanced students and then what I can do to help them. So the advanced teachings I gave them to you and I'm all, great, just do them. You'll be enlightened.

0:28:48
you'll be enlightened. And I just sit there and I'm like, yay. And then you guys go, yeah, okay. It's all heavy. My burden is impossible. And I go, oh, okay. And then you go, I learned the advanced teachings and I tried them once and it didn't work, so it doesn't work. And I better go to get a second opinion. My doctor said I should lose weight so I went to my baker for a second opinion. So, somebody told me this is not working. I better go to Sahaja. So there's a number of other enlightened beings from our school who I'll introduce you to school, who I'll introduce you to from time to time. They'll be great inspirations to you and give you beautiful teachings. Then you go, I'll go to Ma, I'll go to Mandala, I'll go to Agni Kala, I'll go to Shiva, I'll go to somebody else and say, Hey, what do say, Hey, what do I do? And all of them will tell you what to do. They'll be like, Oh, here, I'll do a Shiva. Oh, see, what you got to do is just take all that, all that suffering, all that confusion, and just bring it right here. Right to the heart. And then, and he's And then, and he's not wrong. That's enlightenment. And then you'll go to like, you know, you go to Sahaja. Sahaja will be like, you know, you're coming at this like the intermediate study. So the advanced study is not the intermediate study. You should throw out the intermediate intermediate study. You should throw out the intermediate study. Actually, the whole song is an intermediate study. Yoga is an intermediate study. Anything is a routine, the old way. Enlightenment is the new way. I don't know if she'd say that, but she'd probably say something like that. And then Maat will say, you've got to balance your chakras, my aunt will say, you've got to balance your chakras, man. You know what your problem is?

0:31:24
Your chakras. Balance your chakras in enlightenment. So anyway, the wonderful thing is, then you'll Then you'll go to Agni Kala. And you'll be like, you just feel, feel, there's the four, what is it, four legs? No, four pillars. Feel it, just in those four pillars of enlightenment. And then tantric sex. And then, you know, fuck it, let's just go to the desert and bring some drums.

0:32:02
I know that sounds funny, but Go to the desert and bring some drums. I know that sounds funny, but it's powerful. So these are great enlightened teachers. They are. I know I'm making fun of them, but they make fun of me. Shiva's all, so, uh, enlightened, enlightenment, huh, Sampara? He's all, you're as enlightened as a cockroach. He's all, you're as enlightened as a cockroach. And I'm like, thank you.

0:32:30
The golden cockroach. Yeah, we're all pals. We're a network of great friends. And so, I like to bring other enlightened teachers from our school to give you these beautiful teachings. I didn't even do a Turya. I didn't even do a Turia. But there's many enlightened teachers in our school and we know each other and we share with each other, so it's a beautiful thing. However, when your doctor tells you something and then you're shopping around for other answers, you're You're like, I knew it, brain cloud.

0:33:16
You're shopping around trying to find out what the problem is. I'm like, there's no problem. I like this idea. But there's something I can do for you. So I've come to a great realization of what is and what is is. And so I can do something to help all the advanced students greatly. And it's what I did for Lila. So Lila was going through the enlightenment cycle, and she was really, really going through it, dealing with the hardships. And I was like, okay. But she was dedicated on her enlightenment. And then She was dedicated on her enlightenment. And then, when it was the right time, I was able to sit with her and I was able to give her her final teaching. So, I was sitting with her. I pointed out to her the last root of self, and she was able to see it, understand And she was able to see it, understand it, and make the decision to let go of self and to enter nirvana.

0:34:34
So I gave her a teaching, and then she went into nirvikalpa samadhi, and then she was liberated. So with my advanced students, I already see it, and I know that I can sit down with each I already see it and I know that I can sit down with each of you when the time is right, like it was with Leela, and I can give you your final teaching to show you the self and to show you the door to nirvana and for you to be able to make the decision to enter nirvana. to make the decision to enter nirvana. So I have a lot of support to help. So you get confused if you get confused. So when you're going around with this big burden and everything's difficult and hard and you're trying to figure it out and, oh, you know, it's like, oh, it it's like, oh, it doesn't work. Oh, my burden. Oh, it's impossible. When you're going around with that heavy way of practice, then you start to say, well, Samadhi, what do you think?

0:35:54
Or Sahaja, what do you think? Shiva, what do you think? And then you start going off going off left and right here and there. You have to let go of that. They might say, this is the intermediate state of mind. On the pathway to enlightenment, if you come across the Buddha, then they say, you've got to kill the Buddha. And so they'll say, oh, you have all concepts, you've got to get rid of your concepts." I'm like, yeah, you guys could stop trying to kill me. I'm here, I notice. It's kind of funny. But with our teacher, he gave us the advanced teachings and then six months later he was dead. So he wasn't hanging around So he wasn't hanging around teaching us more and the advanced teachings do bring you to enlightenment But a lot of his students After he died They said in their minds. He is enlightenment and we are not now that he's gone It's impossible for us to experience enlightenment I don't know why they did that but they did like the vast majority of his students did that and vast majority of his students did that. And then they stopped practicing the advanced teaching and then they just had this idea of Ram Ramesh is God and we are dirty little mollusks. And that wasn't the teachings at all, but that's what they ended up doing.

0:37:36
the teachings at all, but that's what they ended up doing. So with a lot of the enlightened beings of the school, they had to let go of this idea of our teacher being the only enlightened symbol. Enlightenment is a tall, six foot three, white guy with blonde curly hair. I mean, I think that's a good, funny joke, too. But that's what, I mean, in their minds, too. But that's what they mean, in their minds, that's it, and it can't be anything else. Can't be any other stereotypical view. You see a swami? Fake. You see some Buddhist monks sitting there with a robe and a bald head? Fake. Not tall, no blonde hair. Fake. to a lot of Ram Rinpoche's students. And so that's why the enlightened students might think that. But I have a different view because I never had that problem. I never had that hang-up at all. I always followed the advanced teachings and then it worked out. But I know many of the students didn't. So the warning that the enlightened teachers might give you is, oh yeah, you can't just sit there worshipping Sambara and being all in Sambara's structures and all that stuff because you're just Sambara worshippers. That's a valid point from what So, you know, that's a valid point from what they've seen with a lot of Ram Rinpoche's students.

0:39:22
And the good thing is that that should not be the case at all. If you're... you have a seriously weird problem if you walk down the path and see Buddha and want to kind of kill him. path and see Buddha and want to kind of kill him. So Buddha taught... One of Buddha's principle teachings, he's like, the first way for you to get closer to enlightenment, or the easiest, or the most... He says it's the most accessible, most powerful way, is to be with an enlightened most powerful way is to be with an enlightened person. So he's like, yeah, be with an enlightened person. And that rule doesn't change when you're in the advanced study. If you're a brown belt in karate and then you get the last kata teaching to get your black belt and you say, okay, thank you sensei, I'm going to leave now because I already... and I need Thank you, Sensei, I'm going to leave now, because I need to go and figure it out myself, because I can't learn from you, because you're a fourth-degree black belt, and I think you are martial arts, and I'm not martial arts. That's a weird hang-up. So, I would say, don't And, you know, Buddha, most of his arhants didn't become enlightened by leaving the study.

0:40:59
They became enlightened by being in the sangha. There's many stories of Buddha's arhants, becoming enlightened during one of his dharma talks. So I was talking about Vulture Peak, this place of power, and he gives this dharma talk with half a dozen students and Sariputra is there. And during this, he gives this silent teaching and he says, who understands? And He says, who understands? And Sarikutra all of a sudden understands and becomes enlightened. So there's many, many stories of Buddha giving a teaching. You can even read those teachings in the Middle-Length Discourses. And all of them are, Buddha taught this and then this person, this monk became enlightened. This person became an arhant. This woman became enlightened. This person became an arhant. This woman became an arhant. So it is in association with an enlightened person where things tend to work out better. In the great traditions of the Vedanta, Hinduism, and a bunch of other isms. But in these great traditions of enlightenment, most of the time, the master teaches a student how to become enlightened.

0:42:43
All of these Zen things about the koan, it's like, oh yeah, whatever that koan is, it's Oh yeah, whatever that koan is. It's impossible. It's heavy. I don't get it. It doesn't work. And I'm going to go off on my own and try to figure out enlightenment. That's just, you know, it doesn't happen. So not to the great traditions of enlightenment, it's usually that you're sitting there in the sangha with your teacher doing the study, doing the practice, and it works. There are stories of people having to go away and do There are stories of people having to go away and do their own thing, but the majority of the teachings are of enlightenment through traditional structures. There are stories of people going away from a karate dojo and doing their own thing and learning things You develop yourself through these structures of power, these structures of the inner arts by developing yourself in the structures, not quitting the structures and then trying to figure it out on your own. Go and learn like, hey, come to my Tom Kwan Do dojo because because I'm Tom. And Kwando sounded cool. You know, stuff like that. So you should recognize that you're in a good structure, that it's helpful for you, it's beneficial for you.

0:44:24
as a higher degree black belt, I know what's going on and I can help a lot. It's beneficial. Of Rama Rinpoche's enlightened students, the ones that you might ask, the second opinion, opinion, they don't have enlightened students. They probably don't even teach. They haven't brought people up from beginning to intermediate to advanced to enlightenment. They haven't brought people through successful yogas. So I'm a master instructor and I know what I'm I know what I'm doing. And so if I thought it was a good idea for you to just go fuck off and try to figure shit out on your own, I'd tell you. I'd be like, hey, what's that over there? And then you're like, what? Hey, where'd you go? Because for me to do for me to do the work, it is work, but it's worth it. So for advanced students, some of you are in the enlightenment cycle and it could be six or eight months and you'll be liberated from you doing the practice yourself. Some of you might get hung up. So the great majority of Ram Rinpoche's Some of you might get hung up. So the great majority of Ram Rinpoche's students got these weird hang-ups. But I'm here and I'm able to break your hang-ups and I can show you the doorway to nirvana. So that's a great thing. Today I was like, hey, enlightened, it's really not that hard. So for my advanced students, as hard as it was for you to develop the impeccability of your career, that's how hard it is to become enlightened that much. As hard as it was for you to get a black belt in martial arts, that's how hard martial arts, that's how hard it is. When you followed the structures of the school to learn job yoga, to learn martial arts, to learn yoga, to be in the generation of Apari and Zen Cloud, this whole structure, when you follow this structure of learning, very, very, very, very possible. If you go to a karate dojo and you follow the lessons and the structures, you just sit there and go through the kata's, the forms, the practices, the kumite practice, all that stuff. Everything that you do, you develop yourself and develop yourself and develop yourself. And then when it comes time for the black belt test, it's yourself. And then when it comes time for the black belt test, it's not a leap. It's something that you've conditioned yourself for. It's not like this big impossible thing.

0:47:49
It will happen. So if you have developed your career successfully as job yoga, which my have, then it is possible. It's as possible as that. These are all the contributing disciplines that bring you to enlightenment in our school. You've got a black belt in martial arts, then it's as difficult as that. So if you've got your career in your martial arts, enlightenment got your career and your martial arts, enlightenment's not impossible at all. And I'm very, very happy. You know, I'm going to give you your three years to work out your own enlightenment because then you'll be ready. And then I'll just come over and say, come here, come here. Look, see that? Boom, there's Nirvana. So this is a school of enlightenment and there's going to be many enlightened students here. Don't get confused. Don't get confused. Just do the practice and you're in a good dojo. I definitely know what I'm doing. You have already an example of success in yoga, an example of an enlightened student following the same thing you've done. And ask yourself, is Leela a better programmer than me? Is Leela And ask yourself, is Leela a better programmer than me? Is Leela a better martial artist than me? She followed the same structure and that's what brought her to enlightenment.

0:49:25
So just do the work. You've already done the impeccable discipline of becoming a job yogi. You've done the impeccable discipline of doing martial arts in the way of enlightenment You've done the impeccable discipline of doing martial arts in the way of enlightenment through the structures of the school. You've done the impeccable discipline of Bodhisitta and of a yoga company succeeding. That's all that it takes. And then enlightenment is as hard as that. It's as hard as the career part. Getting the company to be successful, that's Having the company to be successful, that's even harder than enlightenment. It's true. Through yoga, oh my gosh. When I watched what those yogis did, I was like, wow, you guys are great. Enlightenment's going to be easy for you. They're all like, goddammit, it's It's tossable. Yeah, so I'm here to remind you that once you get the advanced teachings, if you practice it, you become enlightened. I've been enlightened for 20 years now or something like that, so I have many black belts. I've completed all of the advanced I've gone beyond that to a higher level. So I definitely know what's going on and I definitely can help you. Stop being confused and stop trying to kill the Buddha. That's the stupidest thing I've ever heard. You guys don't sit there and go, Simbhar is a god. Simbhar is You're a similar cool guy. I just can't be enlightened.

0:51:20
So I'm not some godhead. I'm a sensei. I can teach you how to do the same things I do, and I am, and you guys are doing it. Advanced students have given you all of these advanced all of these advanced transmissions and they're coming through you. All of the things that I do in teachings, I've transmitted to you guys. It takes a while to get good at it, but you can do it. Absolutely. And it's already happening. You guys are already in the enlightenment cycle and some of you in advanced stages of the enlightenment cycle. So you're like, and some of you in advanced stages of the enlightenment cycle. So, you're like, yeah, of course, but the ones of you who are like, I don't know, blah, blah, blah, well then wake up and don't worry and be optimistic and don't be so heavy. The pathway to enlightenment is a happy thing.

0:52:24
This is my advanced teaching, my advanced teaching pep talk. Yeah, but I'm not kidding. Like, you know, you guys, so some of you guys have been doing this for a year and a half, the advanced teachings, right? Or a little bit more now. And when it gets to, you know, then if you haven't gone into moksha on your own, then I will gladly help you at that time. But I wanna give you that time to practice and I've taught you how to practice. Just practice, just do it. And if you get stuck, then I'll come over and unstuck you. I'll unstick you.

0:53:12
I'll unstick you. Yeah. So this is a really good thing because today in my meditation, I saw very, very clearly how no matter what you do, advanced students, whether you think whether you think your practice is the greatest thing or the worst thing, when you get to the right place in your practice, I definitely can show you. There's going to be many enlightened students in this school. You're going to do it on your own or I'll kick you through the Yeah, but there's, you know, enlightened teachers can really help. So, you know, some of you have gone scuba diving with me and I have the underwater enlightenment. So it's like deep underwater. They're like, get under the earth's aura. And this is a transmission I was given from my teacher, but my teacher could just touch you on the head and put you into Samadhi. So, you know, enlightened teachers can do shit. And so you should appreciate You should appreciate your opportunity. Don't get heavy. Don't get ponderous.

0:54:56
And if you have any, you know, negativity, you should say yes and bring it into your heart because you will be an example of the way to take negativity and transform it into the pathway of awakening. Fantastic. Now, it into the pathway of awakening. Fantastic. Now, we got up early and then afterwards you guys went running around, jumping in lakes, seeing fairies, and fairy spotting, as we say in England. And hopefully you got really tired because that is what tonight's teaching That is what tonight's teaching is about. Get you nice and tired and let the light get in there. When you're too sleepy, you're too tired to block it. So you could be sitting there going, I don't know if I agree with Sambara. And you're like, hmm, is this that And you're like, hmm. He says that enlightenment is like, good, I don't know. Enlightenment could be bad. I'm so sold on this enlightenment thing. It sounds stupid. And so you could be sitting there doing that the whole time, but then after jumping in the lake and spotting some fairies and then you have to travel back out here, then you're like, oh, what's going Huh? What's going on?" And then the good thing is that I'm bringing the light up and the light gets to you and you're like, oh, I didn't see that coming. Where did that come from?

0:56:42
Too tired to block. It's just a classic martial arts thing. Some of you have been in the dojo Some of you have been in the dojo with me. I'm like, I'm going to teach you how to block. I'm going to make you do a lot of punches, push-ups, kicks, you're exhausted, then I just punch you in the head, and then eventually you block. See? It's like Cobra Kai. I totally know what it is. All right. All right. So tomorrow we're going to be going to a very strong place of power. So this place is a very happy place, very balanced energy. Tomorrow morning we're going to go to a place of power that's intense. So we've been keeping it easy. The lake, very, very happy, very balanced energy.

0:57:36
You know, and, you know, the lake, very, very happy, very balanced energy, you know, the city park, that one cracks me up because it's like, you know, right next to I-5 and the railroad and it's like all noisy and, you know, people go there and do weird things. And yet at the same time, it's a beautiful, magical place. But those are kind of very balanced places. Tomorrow we're going to go to intense places of power. So you've got to be sharp. I know this is getting towards the end of our adventure, but tomorrow you have to be impeccable. And you guys have been doing a good job, but don't let your guard down. We've been building up and tomorrow is the strongest place of and tomorrow is the strongest place of power. So tomorrow we'll be leaving early, so an hour earlier than today. And the reason why is because some people have to check out at 11, so we have to get back in time for them to check out. Because there's people with kids and dogs and things like there's people with kids and dogs and things like that, and they can't bring them to the place of power, otherwise they will, you know, they might disappear. They might get sucked into a vortex or something. So, we are going to meet at five in the morning, and we're And we're going to leave Ray's parking lot at 5.30 on the dot, not a minute late.

0:59:23
And we're going to this place. It's on the way to Medicine Lake, but Medicine Lake is closed. But it's a very powerful place. And we're going to go together. If you're an advanced We're going to go together. If you're an advanced student, you know where it is. You can go on your own, but if you don't know where it is or you kind of know where it is, don't get lost. It's an hour drive from this location. Best to go in the caravan. It'll be really early in the morning, so we should have no problem with rangers or anything like that. like that. And the road was open today. So, you know, we're sitting out here and the ranger can't have a problem with us. So maybe the road to the lava flow that we're going to go to is open tomorrow. But if it's not, we go around it, go anyway. Because we got some work to do. Got to go to this place, the right place of power, very strong place of power.

1:00:24
strong place of power. But we're going early, so I'm going to let you guys go early tonight. So I don't want to keep you too late. I want you to get rest so that we can leave for the beautiful place of power early, 5 a.m. at the Rays parking lot. All right, thank you all very much.

