0:00:00
Hello, welcome to Satsang. So we're going to begin with meditation. We'll be meditating to some different music, some classical music. So let's go ahead and bring the focus to the heart chakra and we'll sit for the Bach Cello Suite number one. And this is just going to be the prelude so it's just about you know three or four minutes long. Sit nice and

0:00:39
straight and let's begin.

0:00:43
Thank you. the the the the the the the the the the the the the Thank you. Very nice. of the Lojong, and this is the extent of proficiency in mind-treating. So, from the considerations

0:03:06
of the previous teaching, you're able to really apply the teachings of Bodhicitta. So you're able to, maybe in sitting, practice a relative Bodhicitta. You're able to really transcend the personal awareness and the physical world and see a very powerful, luminous experience of compassion. Or sometimes it's in your mindfulness practice where you're in a situation with someone you know, traffic, or work or something, and you're able to be mindful in a way of compassion. And when you're able to see that, that these teachings, these very powerful enlightened teachings, are something that you can do, even if it's to a small degree. It's something that gives you confidence. And this gives you proficiency. So when you start to see, wow, yeah, I did it a little bit, then that's good. That's what you need to see. And then you naturally start to explore greater proficiency. So you say, hmm, I wonder if I can give of myself more, reach more profound experiences of offering light and help and seeing the powerful differences minds and lives of the people you affect. So this is important to one, you know, extract the teaching from the previous teaching, which is to have some awareness that bodhicitta is something that you can do, and then to observe the natural outcome of that, which is examining the pathway to greater proficiency. So, we set to Bach's cello suite number one in G major. And it was played by a cellist named Yo-Yo Ma, which probably you all know, because he's the most famous cellist in the world, and probably of all time. And he played this version that we listened to in Carnegie Hall, really pretty much at the top of his career. I mean, he was playing concerts when he was seven years old. But this is where he was, yeah, very mature, considered to be very proficient in his art. And Carnegie Hall is the most famous theater in the United States. And he was playing this solo. So this, you know, Bach Suite was where he was, of course, a virtuoso. And when we listen to it, it sounds amazing and beautiful and profound and it's like, wow, you have to be great to play this, right? Yes. However, this was also the very first song that he had ever learned. So he learned to play the Bach suite when he was five years old. And when he sat down, his father was a music teacher, so his father taught him. When he sat down, his father, you know, played a recording of it for him, and he was like, oh my gosh, he's five years old, and he's listening to, you know, some professional playing this, you know, classical piece. And as a five-year-old, he's thinking, oh my gosh, this is too amazing. I can't do this. There's no way I can do this." And then his father said, so today I'm going to teach you four notes. And then he said, if you learn these four notes, then you're doing very, very well. So he was like, oh, okay, I guess I can learn four notes. And he'd been doing, you know, up until that point, he'd been learning his scales and stuff like that. But this was the first song that he undertook playing. He started when he was four. I think he was four when he actually started learning this. So his father taught him the first four notes of this suite. And it's, it was just very simple for him. He's like, okay, okay, this note, okay, this note, this note, and this note. And then his father said, okay, good. So now we're gonna put it together. Because if you recall from listening to it, there's a lot of repeating notes in this. So his father was able to teach him on the first day, the first measure of the song, the first kind of musical motif that carries through this whole prelude. And so he was, on his first day, able to learn the first measure. And he was like, wow, okay. And then he would listen to the recording again, and then he'd be like, wow, that guy did the first measure really well. And then even in the first day he was able to do the first measure of the psalm similarly to this professional cellist. And then he was like, okay, I see something. And then the next day his father said, now I'm going to teach you two new notes. And then he was like, okay, I guess I could learn two new notes. And he learned two new notes. And then this was from the previous four notes and the two new notes, he was able to play pretty much the main melody of the song. And then after his second lesson with his father and he was able to play this, and then he was like excited. He said, wow, I can actually do this. So when he first heard it, this big, long, huge, beautiful, you know, professional melody, he was like, oh, my goodness, I'm so far from that. But then two days later, after, you know, learning from his father, he was able to really be able to see that he's able to learn it, little by little, but for sure. And then he was so excited after his second lesson that he could learn. So when we're learning Bodhisitta, it doesn't come easy, for some people maybe. But for a lot of people, we're so bombarded with negativity in the world that we're kind of usually in self-defense mode and we're not opening our heart to the world. We're trying to push people out. We're like, oh, you have a hard time? Get away from me. I have enough hard times. But when you learn the beauty and the power of Bodhicitta, you opening your heart and being able to be compassionate to others is much better, a much more beautiful way of being, and a way that doesn't hurt you. It's a way that actually helps you, enlightens you, makes you stronger, and also you're a helpful person to be around for others. So it's important to have this recognition that even though it's this big doctrine and it's like, you know a whole bunch of practice of this ultimate compassion stuff it starts small maybe with your first four notes But then once you can recognize that you can do it, then this is where you start to grow. And when you're growing, that's how you increase your proficiency in mind a Lojong teaching. One of the teachings is, of the two judges, rely on the principal one. The principal one is yourself, and the other judge is anybody else. So when you're doing something, when you're learning the Dharma, when you're learning about life, anything in life, learning a skill like computer programming or martial arts or something like that, Hatha yoga, anything, if you're learning something, yeah, you're going to get instruction, you're going to get direction, corrections and things but the most important thing to do is to Be aware of your experience and to see success and truth in your experience So your experience Is where you can see the truth. If someone's telling you that we have this, what's that saying? Don't piss on me and tell me it's raining. So we have to be able to look at life and our experience and what we're learning and what we're going through and see what is real, what is true? And if you're having an experience and someone's telling you something different, you have to rely on yourself. And this is the way that you need to develop yourself in skills and in the Dharma. So with Yo-Yo Ma, from his experience He said, Wow, I can actually do this. There's some music in this. And for you in bodhicitta, you have to say, Whoa, there's some truth in this. There's some light in this, even if it's your first four notes. So it's very important that you yourself are the one who can recognize the validity, the truth, and the power in what you do, in your practices, in your life, in your mind, in your life. You've got to, through your experience, you have to see what's real and what works. So finding that truth is so important. There's so many people who don't take responsibility for their life and their mind, and they'll just fall into karmic patterns, be manipulated by politics and advertising and other people. you'll live your life in a way where it's not true, not being true to yourself. So we have to validate our own experience. We have to see the truth. And then this way, you're not relying on others' judgments of what's good, what's real, what's powerful. But you're relying on your own experience of what's real. So you can't be like a parking ticket in a New York City shopping mall, going around looking for someone to validate you. You've got to be experiencing yourself, from your experience. This is what Buddha said as well. Buddha said, don't take what I say on faith. Don't just accept what I'm saying. If my teachings are real, then put them to the test. Try it. Experience it. And then you'll know yourself from reflecting on it, from experiencing it, if this is a true teaching. So it's very important. So you can validate your own parking. You can park, get out of your car, look at it and go, yeah, I did a great job. Yeah, pulled in perfectly even, right angle, you know. And then you get to the exit, and the guy asks you to pay, and you're like, I already validated my parking. I'll validate that with also six dollars. But it's very important. This is a teaching of self-reliance. When you're not looking to someone else to validate you, when you're looking to yourself and your experience. I mean, sure, you're going to engage in constructive structures where you can develop yourself, where you can have strong and authentic teachers and a good system to learn from. However, that alone isn't good enough. So because you could be in a great school and a great structure and have a great master and still miss the way because you're looking outside for validation and you're not looking into your personal experience. So even in a great martial arts school, you don't become a good fighter just by going through the moves. You become a good martial artist by learning and by really absorbing the spirit of the teachings. And then you become, you know, this magic kicks in because you're letting it in You're not just sitting there looking at the sensei going. Oh the sensei is so good Sensei so good sensei so yeah, that's a good Because the sensei has validated the power of the art in their own experience So that's what we have to do in meditation So if did you embrace each other and often in learning technology, and learning martial arts, and learning anything you want to learn in life, you have to look at does it work? And be honest and critical. And then figure out what works. So this is very good. You can't just be looking to some Zen master to say, yes, you solved the koan. You're like, oh, I was just choking on my ham sandwich. He's like, yeah, you solved the koan. He's like, what did I do? You missed it. Or you can't be waiting for some higher force. You're like, space aliens, bring me up. Beam me up. If you beam me up, I will be validated. You can't be just waiting around for God to give you the thumbs up, right? So that's what self-reliance is. You do it yourself. So there's this guy. He was running late to a job interview. He's driving around the parking lot, looking, looking, looking. And he's like, oh my gosh, I'm going to miss my interview.

0:22:21
I'm going to be late.

0:22:22
It's going to be horrible. And he can't find a parking spot. And then he stops and he prays to God. And he goes, God, please open a parking spot for me. And he's like, if you give me a parking spot, I'm going to quit smoking cigarettes. I'm going to quit drinking whiskey. And I'll come to church every Sunday. I promise. And then all of a sudden, the clouds part. And then the light from the sun comes down to this one parking spot that he didn't see before. It's just right there. And then he goes, oh, never mind, God, I found a spot. He goes into it. So it's important for you to validate yourself. Validate your own part. But this also comes in, the main part of this teaching is in dealing with being around people. Because people as judges are all over the place. And they will Everyone's got an opinion. And opinions, everyone's got lots of opinions. And people will see something that they see as good, and they'll say, yay, that's good. Now, they might see someone do something that they think is good. Maybe it's a little gesture that someone mean and evil makes, and then they go, wow, you're really good. Or maybe there's someone who's a very pure, high, dharmic being, and then they look at something that they do that they don't understand or they don't like, and then they go, oh, you're evil. You're evil bad. So when you're considering the judgments of other people, this teaching says, don't listen. Don't take it to heart. You can look at it, but you have to weigh it in your own heart and mind to see if it's something useful. Because people are infamously not good at judging things. So, there was a time during the life of Padmasambhava. So, Padmasambhava really was the main influence of bringing Buddhism to Tibet. Buddhism was already going to Tibet, but there was a big Tibetan pagan religion and Buddhism. And then he was the one who brought them to merging, which is what we call Tibetan Buddhism today. And Padmasambhava was this self-born Buddha. So he was born in a lotus on a lake as a young boy. He could already speak and he knew, you know, he was the spiritual master. So he was this very, very, very, very, very magical, magical spiritual teacher. And he went all around the Himalayas doing all sorts of teachings, and he was known to do some strange things sometimes. He was very, very tantric. So he would do things that people couldn't understand, but then later they would see the power of it. So he was going through a kingdom called Zohar, and in this kingdom he started teaching, and the king had heard of this wild guy doing crazy things. And he's coming, he comes into his kingdom and he's doing these teachings and he's like, I don't know what to think about this guy. But the year before he came, the king's daughter, the princess of Zohar, she decided to leave the royal court and she joined a nunnery. And she was like, I must have a religious life. And the king was like, OK, that's an acceptable way to go. You're not going to be the princess and fulfill those kingdom requirements. It's OK to go and be a nun. So he's accepting of that. And then all of a sudden Padmasambhava goes to the nunnery and then he reportedly engages in some debauchery there. And then he leaves the nunnery with the princess, whose name was Mandarva. And he leaves the nunnery with her. She follows him. And then they're going around and doing who knows what. So the king gets really angry. The king goes, this is not spiritual. This is unacceptable. And he's furious. And he's like, this goes against everything that he believes, everything that he understands is what is right. So he sends his guards out and captures Padmasambhava and Mandarva. And then what they do is they have this big pit and they threw all this wood and old brush and things to the bottom of the pit and then they pushed Mandarva and Padmasambhava into the pit. So they're down there, and they can't climb out because it's too steep. And then they throw in some burning things to light everything on fire. And it's like giant piles of wood. And then this big pyre starts to burn. And so Padmasambhava is sitting down there looking up. And then he raises his hands, he sits going like this. Now he was known to be a very powerful mystic, a very powerful master of cities. And so what happened was this water started to come from under the pyre of wood that was starting to burn. And then it kept raising and raising and raising. And then it extinguished the fire. And then it kept raising and raising and raising. And then Mandarva and Padmasambhava would just stand and the water brought them up, like it was an elevator. And they got to the top and then the water kept going up and up and up. And then the king and the guards started backing off and the water filled up this large area that's now called Lake Sao Pema. This is the lake that Padmasambhava created. He did the same where he created a lake to get himself out of this trouble of being burnt. And then the king, seeing this, realized that maybe he was wrong. Maybe his judgment was wrong. Maybe this guy who can do something like this is actually worthy of the Dharma, the being of spiritual being. So he immediately was filled with remorse and then he went to Padmasambhava and begged him for forgiveness. And then he offered Padmasambhava his kingdom and Padmasambhava said, well, I don't need it physically, but I'll accept it spiritually. And then he also, They didn't have crowns. The king had this big hat, this big special hat. And then so he offered Padma Sambhava this hat. And then Padma Sambhava took the hat. And so if you ever see a picture of Padma Sambhava, he's wearing this big special hat. And that's where it came from, came from the kingdom of Zahor. After that, the king accepted that his daughter was the disciple of this master, spiritual, mystical master. And he was very, very happy. And his kingdom was filled with dharma. And then Padmasambhava and Mandarava went to this nearby cave and they meditated there. Then Mandarva became enlightened. And then this spread new teachings through the land. So this was a very beautiful thing. Now the king, in the beginning, he had all of these beliefs. He was always told that things had to be a certain way, that if it wasn't that way that it was that and so when he cast that judgment he was You know acting In line with what he was taught and understood, but he also had an incorrect judgment about you know an enlightened being so when we're considering the judgments of others, if someone says to you, you're bad because you practice compassion, then you should say, I shouldn't maybe, I think I shouldn't just believe them. What do I find in my own experience? There was another story that I read about John Lewis. It was very similar. So John Lewis, you know, he he had You know performed many acts of righteousness compassion social justice He he you took his spiritual beliefs and and put them into action in his life and so There was you know this really great story where, last time I told you about when he was doing his second great act, which was called the Freedom Riders. So in 1961, a group of, I think, six African Americans and six white Americans, they got on, they went on this bus trip to go from Washington, DC down into the segregated South, to New Orleans. And on the way there, they got into all sorts of trouble, because when they would get off at one bus station, and then these whites and blacks were together, it would make the whites in the South get really angry. And then they started getting into the news, and then, like, you know, the Ku Klux Klan would start showing up and they would attack them. So I think John Lewis today was beaten several times on that trip. And the worst one was this time somewhere in South Carolina where he was beaten until he was unconscious, I think. And he was just down there, and the Ku Klux Klan showed up. It was horrible. People got beaten very badly. And then the next day, got up, put on some bandages, and got on the next bus. So he did these great inspirational acts. And I think it was in like 1991 or something like that, there was this guy, his name was Elwin Wilson, that was his name. And he was there in the 1961 place in South Carolina, where, you know, and he remembered, you know, being there and going there just to cause trouble and to, you know, try to mess up this Friedermyter thing. And he remembers John Lewis, because John Lewis was big. You know, he was a big guy. And he's like, yeah, I went over there to this big guy and hit him. And he's like, he remembered going there and his intent and attacking people. And he remembers attacking John Lewis. And he's like, so over the years, after that incident, when he did that, he was like, yeah, this is right. But over the years after that incident, John Lewis kept on showing up in the news, doing this or doing that. And then he ended up in the Congress and doing good works in the Congress. And then watching this over the years, Elwynn Wilson, he was like, hmm. He's like, huh, I think maybe what I did was bad and I see that this guy's doing all these good things. So then, in 1991, he, you know, set up a meeting with John Lewis. And then he was like, he talked to him, he's like, well, you know, this is what I thought back then, and I was, I was, you know, one of the guys who attacked you. And then he said, I'm sorry. And then John Lewis accepted his apology. And then they were like, you know, having a good conversation. But see, at the time, this guy had his karma. And he really, you know, and his beliefs and his upbringing, and he really believed what he was doing was good, you know? And then it was through John Lewis's acts of Dharma where he was like, oh, wait, I can look at things differently. Similar to the king of Zohar, it's like he really believed something was wrong and then he tried to persecute and put to death Padmasambhava and his daughter because he thought it was so wrong he would rather kill his daughter. so confused with religion and race and other things that they will do crazy, horrible things. But it is just like Padmasambhava and his great miracle of creating a lake, and John and, you know, John Lewis's great acts of the Dharma, where it creates opportunity for change, where even someone who judges you incorrectly can then be transformed and see a greater Dharma. So Dharma and compassion are these things that really change the way that negativity and hate and limited karmic views are undone. So it's also, you know, there's also times where there could be a very, very horrible negative person, but they somehow, you know, get you to think they're okay. They might do a small act, and then you say, well, that was good. So then that person must be good. And then you believe them, or you judge them as good, and they might be bad. So this has happened throughout history, once or twice. Throughout modern history, throughout what's happening right now, once or twice, right? So when there's someone who's Bad and everyone judges them as good then This is where you also need to reflect on Your if it's happening now, or if you can learn from the past if it's happening and Might happen in some political system or some social movement or something like that You have to say how does this make me feel? What is the reality to me? So if some politician is saying something, and everyone's all, yeah, I agree, don't get caught up in other people's judgments. This is where you meditate, and you practice compassion, and you can see for yourself what is what. Like in Buddhist time, there was a, I think he was a cousin of Buddha's, knew him growing up. His name was Devadatta. And Devadatta was a little bit competitive with Buddha. And then when Buddha started teaching and getting many monks, then Devadatta started to get a little bit jealous because everyone was listening to Buddha. In fact, when they were like 15, some people would listen to him. So Devadatta, he didn't have any attainment. He never became very spiritual through the practices of Buddhism, but he learned just the information. So he had a good memory, so he learned a lot of the teachings. He didn't have any deep spiritual realization, but he learned how to manipulate the teachings so that he can get power over people. So he went over and slowly started going around the sangha spreading like misinformation and he started saying, you know, Buddha's too weak with his middle path thing. Like you got to be hardcore and you got to meditate like me. And he started showing that Buddha was too easy and too lenient and that you had to like do stricter practice and that he was the one who would teach stricter practice. So he spread this throughout the sangha. And then there was all these monks who were like, yes, I see what you mean and we believe you. And then one day he got 500 monks to believe him and he gave them some really good like, you know, hey, let's get out of here and go follow me and Then he he got 500 monks to leave Buddha and to follow him And all these monks were believing what he was saying. He was he was saying that there was You know deficiencies in Buddhist teachings and that he was the only one who knew how to balance what was deficient. So they believed him and then they followed him. And then through the years, he just kept on kind of spreading hate to them. He would be like, Buddha's bad, and Buddha's school, but being mad at Buddha and Buddha's school. And so he would just say all these bad things and they'd be all, yeah, those Buddhist monks are jerks. And he was just never getting the solution, because he was like, well, when I was with Buddha, I had certain, I'd learned certain things, but then I wasn't there yet. I didn't have any realization. And then you told me that I'm going to have realization, so I'm not kidding you, though. You told me meditating harder, longer, fasting and all these things were going to really do the trick for me, but it's really not. And then after about eight years, this is when Devadatta conspired to try to kill Buddha. And then this monk saw it and he was like, this is horrible. So that kind of like woke him up to say, yeah, Buddha might not be hardcore or whatever, but he was okay, I guess. And then you're trying to kill him, he didn't really do anything. And so this monk decided to leave. So he ran away from the Devadatta's school. And then Devadatta was mean, so if you tried to run away from him, he would like capture people and like imprison them or something. But he got away into the jungle, and he was sitting in the jungle, and he was really upset, you know, he's just sitting around in the jungle, eating leaves. And he was just really upset, because he was just like, I don't know what to do, you know, I was following this way, but this way didn't work. He was in his own experience, he saw that it didn't work, even though he believed the judgment of Devadatta. And then he was just sitting there, probably for a couple months or so. And then these two women showed up and they were wearing robes, but they had kind of longer hair and They show up and they say hey, how's it going and you're sitting under a tree eating some leaves and they gave him some food mm-hmm and then um and Then they say so what's your situation and he goes? Oh, I was studying with this this teacher But he was kind of bad and then they're all oh, yeah. Well, we study with this teacher, but he's kind of good Now these were two bhikkhunis, two Buddhas, women monks, and they had gone into a refuge by themselves for several months, and that was like a meditation refuge. And so that's why their hair grew out, because otherwise even the bhikkhunis, they would shave their head. And so they weren't, you know, they were just coming back and they were heading back towards the Sangha. And then while they were sitting with him having lunch or something like that, he was bothered by his teacher. So they started saying, oh yeah, recently we had heard our teacher say this and this. And so they started telling some of Buddha's teachings. And then this monk of Devadatta's, who also was looking pretty rough, sitting out in the jungle by himself, he was like, wow, this sounds amazing. I'd love to meet your teacher. And then he said, well, come with us. So then he travels with them, and they go up to Bodh Gaya. And then they arrive, and then he starts seeing all the Buddhist monks, and he's like, oh, there's all these Buddhist monks here. And then the women are all, yeah, yeah, this is our teacher Buddha right over there. And he's all, whoa, OK. He's like, oh, I don't know. I mean, what you said sound good, but still, what Dhanukata said was pretty bad, so I didn't know what to do anymore." And then he goes and sits with Buddha, and Buddha gives a teaching. And then in his mind, in his experience, he feels peace, and all the confusions just drop away. There's just all this luminous, you know, wonderful spiritual emptiness. And this is where he attained what they call the first liberation which is called the stream winner and He was very happy and so then he's funny he became a Buddhist monk again so he ended up judging Buddha as bad and Devadatta is good because Devadatta was saying bad things. He was judging. So he was following the judgment of another and Devadatta's judgments were coming from a very bad place, but he couldn't tell. All he could tell was that Devadatta was creating some action, selling some story. And then his experience with Devadatta over time was no satisfaction, didn't work. And then coming back to Buddha, even in that first teaching, there was a very powerful true experience, and that was that he gained the first attainment. So, some people who are good might be judged as being bad. Some people who are bad might be judged as being good. And don't listen to other people's judgments. You have to really take upon yourself the practice of looking inward. Because only you can know your mind. Some other person is going through whatever thoughts and patterns that they're going through, karmas, limited viewpoints. People might agree, might disagree. People might judge good, might judge bad. And there's a lot of spin on it. Even in a sangha, someone might be, oh wow, you know what the highest teaching is?

0:50:30
It's this.

0:50:31
Oh really?

0:50:31
Oh, how about that? Really?

0:50:34
So you have to find, there's so many teachings. What's the thing that creates for you the greatest balance? So it's very important, this is, again, self-reliance. This is what this teaching draws you to, you have to know your own mind. And when you know your own mind, then you're able to engage with the world in a way that creates balance and success. So a lot of people don't know their own mind because they're just used to accepting other people's marketing or something, or whatever someone's trying to sell, like trying to sell their way to gain influence so that you put your energy and attention into their way. So you have to observe, first and foremost, what works for you? What's real? You know, and you got to know who you are and who you're not so this is what the practice of Meditation is it's to still your mind the ultimate bodhicitta meditation Still in your mind Seeing the thoughts that come up Going beyond those thoughts and then experiencing life without thought without mental modifications life without thought without mental modifications and Directly knowing life that's balance so when you're accepting Life as it is then you you see Who you are? Yeah It's like there's there's just a little filter on Instagram that tells you which Disney character you are. You're like looking at your phone, you have it on selfie mode, and you're like, who am I? Instagram. And then it like spins this wheel and then it like analyzes your face and then it goes, you're... so you're like, hi. You're sitting there thinking you're the genie of the lamp, I'm the genie of the lamp, and then you go, oops, I'm Jafar. Or something, right? So, you're the only one who could look into your mind and know who you are. Look into your mind and know from what experience what is true, what is truth. So this is very important. We can't just go with what other people say. I mean if there's some wisdom or power to it, then listen and then see what it is to you. But it has to be that you are looking into your mind. This is also part of the teachings of the art of war. Know yourself, know your enemy. But know yourself first. If you know yourself, then you can deal with knowing the enemy. So if you know yourself, then you're able to face anything in the world, and you have that peace. Because when you know yourself through meditation, through the practice of dharma, then you can face a difficult enemy, opponent, challenging situation. And then when you face that, you're able to have the baseline of peace and balance within yourself. And then you get to know the thing you're facing, so that you can overcome it with that same peace and balance. So this is very important. When you're looking at the self and life, what you're engaging in, you have to examine your motives. You have to look deeper. So most people have many layers of intent. So when they're doing something, they have many reasons why. So when you're doing something, you have to ask yourself, why am I doing this? Don't listen to someone else telling you why, but listen to yourself. And you say, well, I'm doing this for this reason, but also this reason. You might find that some of the deeper reasons come from, you know, egotism. And so, when you're examining your motives for doing things, then this is where you can purify what you're doing or why you're doing it. Or maybe change what you do. So it's really important to look very carefully, because if you have negative or selfish motivations, then even if the surface motivations are positive, you're still creating a very deep sickness in what you're doing. And then you then you lack spiritual integrity. And spiritual integrity is very important. It's the only thing that brings satisfaction. You can succeed in business, you can succeed in all sorts of things, succeed in all sorts of things, but if you have spiritually impure intention, then whatever you succeed in, in the physical world, in any task, you'll be unhappy. something corrupt and dysfunctional and broken and dissatisfying. So it's important to really look at what you're doing and why you're doing it and come to the deepest levels and align your spirit with what you do. And if you're doing something because of surface level intention and if you're doing things in the wrong way, you've got to be able to let go of things that don't work. You have to be able to realign your intent to things that do work. And it might not be something that you have to completely change. It might just be the way that you interface with it. I'll give you two examples of education. So two thousand years ago in India, in Bodhgaya, there was a, here Bodhgaya, there was the first Buddhist university, Nalandya. giant monastery and many, many, many meditation halls and many, many thousands of monks. This is when they had written down the Buddhist teachings already, and they were teaching there were, you know, brand new monks and there were masters, right? And so this one young man became a monk and he was like, I want to become a master at this university. This is the place of the highest learning of Buddhism. So he goes in and he spends many years there becoming a master. And then when he learned everything, passed every test, then the elders of the university said, you are now a master and now you can join our ranks and teach. And then once they declared him a master, he all of a sudden felt miserable. And then he started to say, why do I feel miserable? This is what I've always wanted. I've always wanted to come here, learn everything, and become a Master. Now that I'm a Master, then why do I feel horrible? So he had to reflect on it. And he started to find that he had impure ideas. He wanted to go to the best place to become top, because he wanted to have a distinction, a personal, egotistical distinction. I went to the cool place. I became the top at the cool place. And then I am a master in position above others. So he found that he had surface level of wanting to learn and learn about Buddhism, but his of intent were to be really, really cool and in a place of position above others. And that, and that being in there, it was like smoldering. So it was like this burning thing that created smoke and made him feel horrible. So he's just like, I can't, I can't, I can't do this. I can't be a master. How am I called a master when I've got this negative intent of being above others? How am I a master? I'm not happy." And then he said, this is not true. So he left the monastery and he went to join a sangha in the east of the country. And there was maybe a hundred monks who were living there. And he went and joined them. And then he lived with them. And then this is where he eventually became an Arhat. But in one month of living with them, he became a stream-winner. And going through this whole university experience, living in the ashram with all the cool masters and learning everything, he learned everything. But he didn't get the first attainment. So then he left because he had the wrong intent where he was. So sometimes you've got to make changes like that. But there's another example where you just have to get it right inside. It takes some changes, but you can do it. There was this one older student, my teacher, and he went to MIT, which is a very famous technical university in the United States. His whole life he cheated on tests At a young age he felt pressure to do well. It wasn't that he was Not smart. He was smart, but he just had to be sure that he got an A on the tests and to do that he he created all these amazing wonderful ways to cheat and so wonderful ways to cheat. And so he cheated through, I think, middle school, high school, and then he got to this prestigious university. And he was really smart, so he figured out how to cheat. So he was like, hmm, I know how to cheat on these tests. So he did his first year where he cheated all the way through and got all A's, right? Top marks. Marx. Then he started learning meditation and Buddhism. Just because he was meditating for a few months, he started to feel bad about cheating. He never felt bad about it before. He was just, oh, no, that's what I have to do. Then he was cheating on some test one day and he felt horrible. And then he said, hmm, I've got to stop doing this. So he stopped cheating. He stopped preparing his cheat sheets and all his elaborate ways of doing it. And then on the next test that he took, he got a C instead of an A, middle grade, right? Three out of five. And he came out of that class feeling a thousand times better than he had ever felt on any exam. And then he was like, wow, this is great. And then from there, he started working harder on studying and learning how to study properly so that he could retain the information properly. And then he ended up, over some time, giving back up to straight A's. And then he felt great about those A's as well. But the thing that was doing something wrong. Something where it just wasn't right and something where it's not right. If you're doing something or doing actions that aren't right, you don't feel good. There's something in you that's off. So he looked at that from his meditation. Just because he practiced meditation, he started looking at his mind. His mind became clearer and you start to see what's working for you. Not just to get you an A, but what's working for you to be happy in life. And then and to do his school with his spiritual integrity. And then he got good grades, or he got good enough grades and then good grades,

1:05:15
learned how to do it right,

1:05:16
but he felt very, very happy about his work. So this is important. We have to have spiritual integrity in everything that we do. And we have to examine our intent. We have to look at it in deeper and deeper ways. Otherwise you'll engage in things with intent that is negative and then ultimately you won't be happy. But if you have the intent of Dharma, then you're going to develop yourself. Maybe you'll have more things to learn, more things to work on, but you'll develop yourself in a way that does bring happiness. things to work on, but you'll develop yourself in a way that does bring happiness. All right. So we're going to take a break. And a 10-minute break. We'll come back, there will be one more of the Lojong teachings, and we'll meditate. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
