0:00:00
Hello. What a wonderful ride. Now, in Disneyland, in Los Angeles, we have this ride called Mr. This is one of the original attractions to this park. And, you know, this is back when they had, like, kind of, I don't know, smaller technology, I guess. Because now you go to some of these things in Disneyland and it's like, woo-hoo! Plug me in. Uhhh. Um, roller coasters and all sorts of wonderful things. But, there's this one called Mr. Toad's Wild Ride. You can Google it. Um, but, it is a, uh, a wild ride. You just get in this little buggy, and you kind of drive around, and you just see things.

0:01:15
Oh, there's something.

0:01:16
Oh, there's something else.

0:01:18
There's a door.

0:01:18
It opens.

0:01:21
But it's very much like the forest, Bardo. Mr. Toad's Wild Ride. So we're all on a roller coaster. Things are good, things are bad. Something happens, there's a change. So we're all on this wild ride. My teacher used to talk about enlightenment being a journey. We're on the pathway to enlightenment. There's always a path. There's always change. There's always something going on. And what you focus on, you become. And whatever you're doing, you're choosing the ride. You're going to do something. You're going to be doing something. Something's going to be in your mind. Will it be a desire, an attachment? Will it be a mystery? Will it be the wild rides? Will it be the roller coasters? Or, in your mind, the pathway to enlightenment, which is a beautiful thing. So we went through the Siddha part of the fourth part of becoming. And see I told you it was going to be easy. I recommend that you read the book, Enlightened Pregnancy. And this book, this book is just like the best story. It's the story of when a soul, a spirit, a jiva, is going to be born. dharmata, the third bardo of those primal, intense states of consciousness, of being. After that, you're going to get born, here's the way. It's the whole story of going from if you're going to get born to being born. It's a book of pathway to incarnation. So the Siddha Bhardo is this beautiful place, beautiful teaching, beautiful opportunity, beautiful ride in Disneyland towards birth, towards incarnation. And birth and incarnation aren't so bad. Check out yourself. Other people that you like. We're incarnate for expressions of eternity in this world, in samsara. It's a beautiful thing. So, enlightened pregnancy is a very powerful way of understanding the Siddha-Bhava, the Bardo of Becoming. I really like it. I mean, I've got to say this again. the Tibetan book of the dead is always saying, Hey, you're dead. Do this, do this, do this, do this. And then enlightened pregnancy from the siddha part or the fourth part, saying, Hey, you're gonna be born. You're gonna live.

0:05:49
So Tibetan book of living.

0:05:51
Hey, you're going to live! Do this, do this, do this, do this. Because once someone is going to, you know, they're pregnant, mostly gals, when they're pregnant, they're just going to be a baby. It's going to be soul, a spirit that incarnates from that physical condition into this physical world. Where does it come from? We call it Siddhapavarta. The spirit will come and it's powerful and amazing, magical. of the Bardo teaching, of enlightenment, of transition, of awareness from spirit to incarnation. There's so many opportunities, so many options, so many possibilities for awareness, enlightenment,

0:07:03
empowerment.

0:07:04
And so, enlightened pregnancy. It's an amazing thing. Hey, you're going to be born. Let me tell you how to do it. Alright, so we're going to be working on the teachings of the Bharata. Just by being together, by going through this with a great intention towards a dear spiritual friend and a spiritual brother and so on, we have heart. In order to be awakened in the bardos, you have to have some heart in it. You have to have some heart in the game. If you just don't care about nothing, or you just care about yourself, then anything that you do in the bardos is just whatever. I mean, for yourself, you have perfect discernment, you see the truth, you can go through and be fine. That's for you. But the yoga of the bardos. It takes a lot of heart. It takes a lot of heart. Kamala and Savitri, when they help people, people who have passed, they can only do it because they have a lot of heart. And they learn the skills. My teacher was a great master in so many ways. I've been doing martial arts since I was six. And he was a greater martial artist. And in his Buddhism, he taught about martial arts all the time. I'm sure I've been in more fights and won more martial arts tournaments, but he was a greater martial artist. So, he taught me and many of his students martial arts. Even in the beginning Buddhist classes he's like, hey, you know, stance. What's the first thing that a martial artist learns? Stance. Stance gives you balance. Stance gives you strength. And I'm like, I used to stand for hours. I know, it's true, it's the truth. He knew the truth of martial arts and he shared that with all the students. Not all of the students got a black belt, but they all learned from that teaching. Now, I myself have listened to his teachings, gained from his teachings on martial arts. This is just one aspect of his teaching. But I listened to it and I got, in my lifetime so far, seven black belts. And I've been doing martial arts since I was six. I learned some more. So I had seven, and I gained in a Jiu-Jitsu system a fifth degree black belt. And then from Shihan Rui, I've been given a seventh degree black belt. So eventually it gets like very honorary. But my teacher said that if you get a fifth degree black belt, he said, that's the real deal. So all of my contemporaries have learned all the same things as me from our teacher about martial arts. But I did work to get not a first degree black belt, I embody that teaching. I am that. That teaching, just like the Shaolin Temple, Bodhidharma taught martial arts to Zen monks. And the ones that learned it, they became Bodhidharma's So it's not a personal thing, it's something that you become from training. Now Kamala and Savitri, they are like third degree, fourth degree black belts in death. Not dishing it out, but you know, but spiritually. They have done the work.

0:13:17
And it takes work.

0:13:18
It's not read a book. They've been through it deeply. And so it's something that takes work. In the beginning, you read this and you go, whoa, this stuff is weird. Oh my gosh, this stuff is so strange. The way that they say things. There's like all these weird things that happen and like feelings and weird symbols. That's in the beginning. But then I say, look at Kamala. Look at Savitri. The first time they went through this, they were freaked out. They were weirded out about it or whatever. But now they know. After many battles, many fights, many understandings, they know. They have siddhas, siddhis, powers because of their work. You can learn in one class. But it takes discipline, power, focus, usually a lot of attention over a lot of time. And a lot of realizations even in the first class. And maybe every class is a realization until you become a master. So Kamala and Savitri, they've been focusing on this for years. That's advanced students. They've read the Bardo-Karol dozens of times. And they've studied it. They've put their minds into it completely. I don't know, it's weird. I don't know why I did it. I did it too. I mean, a very powerful teaching from the beginning practice of Buddhism is, advise your death.

0:16:07
You're alive?

0:16:08
You're not going to be alive forever.

0:16:11
Impermanence.

0:16:12
It's basically just teaching. And you go, and it wakes you up. This teaching, I know it's weird symbols, so we have to get used to the symbols. I was a little kid from San Francisco, and I went to a dojo, or a Kung Fu class, where they taught me to go do Kung Fu moves. It was different. They go, oh, these symbols, these movements are strange. They are strange. They're different than what you're used to. But if you do them, then your kung fu becomes power.

0:16:59
It's true.

0:17:00
When I grew up in my little neighborhood,

0:17:04
there was just trouble and problems.

0:17:07
And I learned through a structure of power, a form of martial arts, that now I have many black belts, I'm accomplished. So I've learned things from powerful disciplines. And I learned Buddhism, and there's powerful disciplines. I know that the things might seem weird, right? You might go to your first karate class and go, this seems weird, this karate chop! And then you have power, and then you have control, and then you have awareness, and that's enlightenment, which is the enlightened

0:18:13
power.

0:18:14
Martial arts. Martial arts is, oh my gosh, I'm trying to kill someone with my martial arts. It's another form of the yoga of death. Nama yoga. It's an understanding. Life and death exist every day. Yin and yang, up and down. There's no fear. When we learn martial arts, or when we learn the yoga of death, we're not focusing on death. We're learning life. We're learning that life is precious and death is precious too. And that there's no difference, there's no yin, there's no yang. But we're learning a control and a power. This is why Mystic School is also very important. All right everyone, thank you so much. So I'm going to introduce to you, I'm going to give a teaching, offering to all of you, to one of my recapitulation teachings, teaching of my teacher that I'm recapitulating. And it's a teaching on death. Now that we've been through the part of that all, it seems intense. It's really funny. I remember I had this one student. She was in a really advanced stage, almost getting her PhD in psychology. And she kept meeting me and I said, you should do some martial arts. And she's like, oh, okay. And I suggested maybe go to a Shotokan karate school. And then she went to, she's like, oh, that sounds interesting. And then she went to a Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu academy, like an intense school of mixed martial arts. She just went there. And she was like, that was super intense. She's like, they're just, there's a way to do these things. You can develop yourself. Develop yourself. Don't do the most intense thing at the same time. And martial arts, in its essence, is extremely intense. Martial arts is about killing or not being killed. That's what it comes down to in martial arts. It's the art of killing someone and not being killed When you're like, whoa, I like my um You know my kickbox aerobics. No, that's part of martial arts too, but get down to what it is So it's one student. She's like this was so amazing way too intense I said, maybe you should do Tai Chi. I know Tai Chi. I've been doing Tai Chi for a little while. Yay! We're talking about intense subjects, but there's many dimensions where you can experience that. There's many ways and games. But we have to get down spiritually to what it is. Life and death. Death and life. And what's beyond death. So, we're going to watch another movie on Wednesday, and what dreams may come was our polite happy movie. The movie we're going to watch on Wednesday is going to be Jacob's Ladder. I understand this a lot. It's also not perfect, it's Hollywood, but it comes from a place of power. It has some truths about the Bartles. So, when we look at these films, I can give you books, films, music videos, and all sorts of things that give you a little insight into the system, Bardo energy there. And when we do this, we do it to understand. It doesn't tell you the whole story. I know it's a movie. It starts and has a middle and has an end. It gives you some information.

0:24:04
And there's more.

0:24:06
We'll see if you're capable of doing it. Yeah, so, Jacob's Ladder. And this is wonderful. I love ladders because ever since my birthday, which was the equinox, I have been feeling higher than a ladder. Can you feel higher than a ladder?

0:24:39
What's above a ladder?

0:24:43
All right.

0:24:44
Bless you all.

0:24:46
Bless off. and which deeply brings me to the advanced teachings. So we're gonna take a break for 10 minutes and then I'm going to meet with the advanced students and the advanced students are not just learning about swimming, they're learning about saving people from drowning. So, thank you all so much. So, thank you all so much.

0:25:12
Be well.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
