0:00:00
Good evening. We're going to begin with meditation. One song on the heart. Sit nice and straight.

0:00:10
Let's begin.

0:00:11
the the the the the the the Thank you. the the the the the the the so so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, You're my hero So I'd like to talk tonight about what our country is going through.

0:05:19
In America, we're having a hard time. Our society is in pain. And an un-evolved person reacts in many egotistical ways to pain. You get hurt, you want to hurt someone else. But tonight I'm going to talk to you about the enlightened way, the Dharma, the way of enlightened truth during these difficult times. distress. And people are out protesting, you know, across a couple dozen cities in our country. Thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people are protesting. And There's people who are so upset, so disturbed, they kind of go crazy, they go against society, start looting stores, burning buildings, burning police stations, government buildings. has the right police. Cities come with their police with shields and tear gas and rubber bullets. Then we have the National Guard, citywide curfews. This is a very difficult So, it's important for us, as Buddhist monks, spiritual seekers, to really understand why this is an awakening to many injustices, and that society is becoming years of racism against African Americans. Isn't that obvious? There's George Floyd, for some petty, alleged petty crime. And he was killed by a police officer pressing down his whole weight with his knee on his neck for almost nine minutes. The guy's got his face in the ground, hands cuffed behind his back and yet cop did this. Or Mahmood Aubry, another African-American going jogging and then some ex-cop and his son come out of a costume killer.

0:09:43
Or Eric Gardner, remember a few years ago?

0:09:47
Pretty much the same thing as George. He's like getting arrested over selling cigarettes illegally or something. And some cop comes to arrest him, gets him in a choke hold. And he said the same thing as George Floyd. He's like, I can't breathe. It's the last thing. Maybe it's Trayvon Martin. Or Rodney King. It really is probably the thousands of other names that we've never heard of because no one filmed it. It didn't get on YouTube. So isn't this obviously the It's like, I'm saying it's like an earthquake. There's these forces that are like deep down in our society that are rumbling against each other and then finally something happens where it snaps. It releases energy. waking up to the fact that there's a problem, that there's something wrong. And it gets people riled up in emotions. This is just the surface of understanding. And it's not understanding the root of why this is happening. And you can't get caught up in the game. You can't get caught up in the story. You've got to see things in a much more fundamental way. The reason this is happening is because as a country, as a people, we have a lack of compassion. If we practiced compassion, if that was a fundamental tenet, ideal, of society, then then there would be no violence. There would be no injustice. We fundamentally miss an understanding of the basic goodness. Everybody is suffering. Everybody wants to be happy. And if you have compassion, there'd be no enmity, there'd be understanding, there'd be no violence. This is the Buddha Dharma. This is the truth of what's wrong. I know we can sit there and look at, that person did this, that person did that. Yes, that did happen. But let's come to a deeper awareness, beyond the drama of yin and yang, of samsara. If we come into the heart of things, the problem Now, don't think that I take what's going on lightly. I take it very seriously. It's very painful. It's very painful. And I'm not just some Buddhist monk who read a book and saying some words. I'm telling you from the truth, knowing it inside out.

0:14:56
So let me tell you a story

0:14:59
of three of my friends growing up. So I grew up in the hood. I grew up in a poor neighborhood and there was gangs and stuff like that. So three African-American friends of mine, you know, like I played with them every day after school and stuff like that, they were in the neighborhood. Story of three of my friends. So I had moved back to San Francisco after living in New York for a long time, after being a Buddhist monk for many years. And I was at work in downtown San Francisco. And in a shop, I saw an old friend of mine from my old hood. His name was Aaron, and he was stocking shelves in the shop. That was some kind of deli or something. And I went over to him, I said, hey Aaron, how's it going? And we kind of chatted and catching up. And then I said, so my mother, like, at one point, got it together to get us out of the hood. So I don't remember how old I was, like 16 or 17, and we got out of the hood into a better neighborhood. But yeah, up until I was like, hey, yeah, whatever happened to the guys? I mean, I never went back there after. So I'm like, what happened to like, you know, the friends we used to hang out with? And he's all, oh, you remember Dion? I'm like, yeah, Dion. Oh, he got shot by a cop.

0:17:06
He's dead.

0:17:07
I'm like, oh, okay. I'm like, what about Troy? Oh, dude, Troy, he a heroin addict.

0:17:16
Like, oh, okay.

0:17:18
This was before it was popular. Okay, and then, oh, Jason. Like, what's up with Jason? Oh, Jason's in prison for murder. I'm like, whoa, like, well, it's good to see that you're doing well. He's all, yeah, I just got out of prison. Assault with a deadly weapon. He's like, he's been in prison, he said he was in prison like five times.

0:17:46
I was like, oh.

0:17:48
So all my friends are either in prison, or dead, or gonna die on drugs. And I was like, wow, these are all the kids I grew up with.

0:18:02
Very interesting.

0:18:03
Guess I was very fortunate. So, you know, when I wear my Buddhist robes,

0:18:10
I look very Buddhist.

0:18:11
If I go to Nepal, I fit right in with the Nepalese. I go to Thailand or Indonesia, wear my robes, I just hang out with them, everything's cool. But in America, ain't the same. In America, I am half black, half African American, and it doesn't go over easy. Right, so I understand, like what's going on, because I live it, I grew up with it. So it's not that I'm this Buddhist monk talking about some compassion where I don't know what's going on. I probably had it worse than, I bet you I had it worse than most, than all of you. by police probably like 12 or 14 times. Handcuffed. How many times have I been pulled over for nothing? For nothing. Just to check. Yeah. So, you know, I've been through it. In a lot of ways. I'm not going into every story. Because there's a lot of things. And every time that I got detained or handcuffed or something, I didn't do anything. And then they let me go. I never actually got arrested or anything. So definitely I know. Now my brother has worse. He has hair. He gets like arrested just walking down the street. I'm not kidding. It's happened to him like several times. I'm like, yeah. Dressing different is good. But, yeah, like I know what's going on. I lived it. And I've got many stories in many ways. I'll tell you one though, that's funny. So I lived in Greenwich, Connecticut, which is a very wealthy suburb, about 45 minutes outside of New York City. And so I lived there, and in a beautiful house. I was a wealthy computer programmer. And then I got a new Lexus, and I got pulled over by some cops. And then they just were like, is this your car? I'm like, yeah. Now, first of all, Greenwich, Connecticut, I've never, there's only two brown people I've seen there. Me and another student, my teacher. I'm like, oh, it's New England. It's a very wealthy, white, beautiful place. With white things and white people. Which I was cool with, but, and I pulled over. They're all like, is this your car? Yeah, it's my car. So, then they ran the plates, figured it out, and they're all, okay, you can go. I'm like, alright. Now this happened about, probably like seven or eight times in Greenwich. We were just driving around, getting pulled over. And the last one was the one that bothered me. And I said, I've got to do something. The last one, I got pulled over, and this cop was mean. And he's like, get out of the car. So I'm like, oh, okay. So I get out of the car he handcuffs me and I'm like I don't know why then he's like okay then he's like all right lay down on your face I'm like okay then he runs all the things I'm sitting there handcuffed with my hand behind my back and I'm like okay what's going on then he goes then lets me go he goes all right you're okay, you can leave. I'm like, thank you, officer.

0:22:29
Okay, so then after that, I was like,

0:22:31
I need to use the art of war and bodhichitta to figure out something better to do. So then I, a couple days later, I came, I found out when they had their roll call, like when all the cops got together for the morning and the evening show, they had two different times, and I came in with two dozen donuts. I came in when their meeting started, actually right before their meeting, and I came in and I brought donuts. And they're all, oh, good, because that's what cops like, I guess. And then I introduced myself. I was like, hi, I know several of you. And I was like, yeah, you know, so you might see me driving around in my awesome Lexus, my brand new Lexus. It's kind of funny. And then I never got pulled over again. Yeah, but the other guy, his name was Jose De La Rosa. And he was like, he was from the Caribbean, but he was African descent, he was darker than me. And he didn't have a car. But he'd go, the cops would just shake him down walking down the street. So I told him to do the donut thing, but I don't know if he did. He's like, no, I'll just hide. Yeah, so, no, I grew up in what's going on right now, what's making everybody angry right now, what's making this explosion of energy. I grew up in this. I don't take it lightly. It's very difficult. It's still difficult. I remember, so when I was hanging out with Aaron, we were just like friends for like, we were kids. And then he did something, he stole something when he went away to juvenile hall, kid prison for a little while. Then he came back and we weren't friends for so long. I didn't see him for a while. So like from 14 to 18, it kind of, maybe something like that, I didn't see him very much. And then one day, I was going to catch the bus to go to school. And then across the street, and I was going to catch a regular city bus, and across the street there was this, you know, the kids' yellow bus. And there were these 12, 13-year-olds, there was like three of them, who started a fight, they started beating up one guy. So I was like, this is not fair. So I ran over, and I pushed them away. And I said, I broke up the fight. And then they're like, no, we're going to get him. And I'm like, no, you're not. And I stood like, I was like, you can't, I'm like, you guys can't mess with me. No, you're not going to get this guy. It's over. So then fight was over. But they were mad at me. They're like, oh, you pushed us. I'm like, yeah, I grabbed them and pushed them away from the guy they were trying to fight. Okay, so the next day, my friend Aaron, who I saw at the store, he had become a big gangster in our neighborhood. So they all come walking to their bus stop across the street, these little kids. I was like 17, 18, and they were like 12, 13. But they come up with Aaron, and Aaron was big. He was a bad gangster in our neighborhood. And then they point across the street at me, and he didn't recognize me right away. He comes walking across the street, and then he sees me. He's all, oh, hey. And I'm like, yeah, but don't worry.

0:26:52
Now, the funny thing about them,

0:26:53
they got picked up on their bus and then it would go into a little bit of a round in the neighborhood and then it would come back on the same road to take them to school. So he's like,

0:27:01
so we're just kind of talking.

0:27:02
And then I was like,

0:27:04
what'd they tell you?

0:27:05
I'm like, dude, they were beating up this little guy for no reason. And they're all, well, he disrespects them, he's in the gangs, it's like this, and I'm like, okay. But I was just like, well, I ain't gonna let shit

0:27:21
like that happen.

0:27:21
And he's like, all right. And then we're just kind of hanging out, and then I thought, you know what?

0:27:27
I'm glad they sent Aaron,

0:27:29
because we're friends from the neighborhood. But the neighborhood's big. I mean, there was two gangs in the neighborhood that would keep fighting, so I'm like, I don't know, you know, they might get a different person the next time, or just other people. So I said, oh, Aaron, you know what we should do? They're gonna come back around on the bus from the loop. And I said, I'm gonna lay down on the ground like you knocked me out. They said, oh, oh man, you don't have to do that. I said, I'll explain it to them. I'm all, no, I want them to feel like they don't have anything against me anymore, that they got their revenge. And then I laid down on the ground, the bus finally came back, the kids stuck their heads out of the bus and laughed. And I was like, now I have nothing to worry about. Then I got up after, then Aaron and I had a good laugh. I thought of it before I left.

0:28:26
There's a good time.

0:28:27
Good times in the hood. Gotta make some fun out of it. Yeah, we laughed about it. But I also got out of trouble from that. So, let me tell you, when I'm saying that we have to have compassion. I'm talking about it from a place of knowing, right, awareness of what's going on. I've lived this, I live it. I still get pulled, I'm sure I get pulled over more than anyone else. I've been pulled over four times in Pacifica. And Pacifica is, you know, kind of a mellow place.

0:29:10
Why do I get pulled over?

0:29:11
I don't know. Like, I get pulled over, cops go, hey, what's up? Nothing's wrong. They let me go. So ask yourself that, American, to live in Pacifica. How many times have you been pulled over? And were you speeding? Because I don't speed. So, I have faced injustice. The injustices that people are raging about right now. But I face them with Dharma. I'm not a victim because of this. I don't feel like a victim. I definitely know that I've faced hardships, things that have been negative, but I resolve these things with Dharma. When you face things with compassion, with love, with truth, with Dharma, even adverse conditions can be transformed into the pathway of enlightenment. This is a time for my students to do this for real, like I do. Not to get caught and and stuck, but to elevate. Because of the adverse conditions, because of the social unrest, because of the hardship, you must elevate. You can't be a victim, you can't be caught in it. You have to direct your mind to the Dharma. And the Dharma is very powerful. The Dharma is truth. The Dharma is what creates liberation. It's very important. Just an example, I've given it before. One of my students, she got a new job, good pay, a good job that she wanted to be in, new technology for her. And when she got this job, there was a senior guy, like the top tech guy. She got hired by the program manager or whatever, but the top, like one of the senior tech guys who's been there for many years, he didn't like her. He was a jerk, didn't like her. And he was like, the project manager said, hey, you know, they introduced, said, hey, she's gonna work on your team.

0:32:16
And he wrote, and he says,

0:32:17
yeah, we'll see how long that lasts. He didn't like her off the bat. Was totally negative. Just wanted her to get off the team, wanted her fired. And she practiced bodhicitta very, very intensely. And then she's like, wow, and after a couple of weeks, he changed, like he all of a sudden, like was open to her, talked to her, listened a little bit. And then after a while, he became a staunch ally of hers. He became a mentor and teaching her, helping her to make her career stronger, her ability stronger. They became friends. He became a mentor and an ally. And then things worked out well. Now think about this. Someone comes over to you and says, you're a jerk! They give you bad energy. And if you just go, ow, that hurts me. You're a jerk! Because of this. back. That back and forth, it just creates more trouble, more problems. Now if she had done that, this guy's a jerk, he's mean, he's pushing me down, he's a man, he's this, he's that, and if all of her energy was a reaction of pointing out what was wrong, pointing out how he's mean, of all the ways he's bad, he would have felt that and they would never be friends. So, when you practice compassion, you first settle your mind in balance. And then, once your mind is in balance, and still you might be getting a lot of bad negative energy, but you're able to then maybe do something. It really does something, but you can't think about the samsara aspect of it. You must settle your mind. You can't say, this was done wrong to me, so I want to right it. Can't do that. You have to let go. You have to accept life, even accept suffering and injustice. Give all victory to others and accept all loss. And then it can change someone. Compassion is powerful. Someone was really angry at Buddha, really angry at him. Thought that Buddha didn't like what his influence was, was very mad. He got an elephant, all riled up and angry, and hurt the elephant and all sorts of things. And then Buddha was walking up the road and this guy, these guys, pushed the elephant out and the elephant was running down the road because it was so upset. And the elephant was just running at Buddha, running at Buddha, and Buddha didn't have any way to get away. And so Buddha just expressed enlightened compassion to the elephant. And then the elephant stopped. It stopped being so angry, outraged. It was like, you know, a wild beast, just acting in its nature. Karma. It was enraged and it was set loose. It was just going to run over Buddha and the monks. But Buddha used compassion, enlightened compassion. So enlightened compassion can stop anger and the stuck karmas that people act out of is powerful. And if you don't do compassion then you're stuck in karma. If Buddha pulled out a sword and cut an elephant's head off or something like that, then that would be an uninspiring spiritual story. And it would be harm that was begotten from a harm. And then there's, what is there left? Harm. So, compassion is a way of no harm. So, you can't point blame. You're like, if you're sitting there looking out

0:37:52
Point Blame. You're like, if you're sitting there looking out in the world and you're saying,

0:37:57
Look what happened. That's bad. He's wrong. I'm right. That's the reason why things are bad. This is the other reason why things are bad. If you're doing that, you're blaming everybody else. And you're caught up in the karma. There's a slogan I've taught, drive all blame into one. And if you're sitting there going this thing and that thing and the other thing, you fall out of unity. Um, I go into very strong, since the protests have been growing,

0:38:53
after my meditation,

0:38:55
I've been going into bodhicitta trances, I call it. I go into bodhichitta very strong because things are very painful. So I understand why you could be upset. Believe me, from my history, my lifetime, I understand probably more than any of you. I've been there, done that, still there, but I practice bodhicitta. So I understand what's going on. Not that I'm like some weirdo who doesn't get it. No, it's easy for some Buddhist monk to say, I'm a Buddhist monk from the hood. So I know what's going on. And I also practice bodhicitta. So, I'm not angry. Things are outrageous. I'm not angry. I'm not, uh, my, my, uh, I don't have a self-reaction. Oh, this is wrong, this is bad. I don't blame anything. I accept all. Derek Chauvin. I do bodhicitta for him. You know who he is? He's the cop that shot George Floyd. I'm in Avery's Killers. Gregory and Travis, like Michael. I do Bodhisita for them. Amy Cooper, I did booty seats for her. She's the one, she didn't kill anybody. She's the one who was walking with her dog off the leash in Central Park, and then this guy, this intelligent, well-educated African American who liked bird watching, told her, put your dog on a leash because you're in the bird area and there's a sign. And she got mad at him and he put a phone up and recorded her. And then she said, I'm gonna call 911 and say an African American is threatening me. That was very typical. And she was just having a bad day. I mean, she didn't have her coffee. I mean, what she did was, I think eye opening to the nation. Everybody knows.

0:42:06
Everybody knows.

0:42:07
This is just like, she's having a real bad day. She's not really a racist, that was a racist thing, but it's just like, everybody knows. That's what happens. Like if you say to a black person, I'm gonna call the police on you because you're black, they're gonna have trouble. They go, somehow I'm going to end up worse off and maybe shot, you know. So she knows that. And that's what everyone knows. That's why that video was very revealing. I do vote Tita for her. just looking at what you think is good, what you think is bad, you're caught up in the whole thing. If you're putting energy into, this is wrong, I say, you're the yin to the yang. But Vesita is going beyond yin and yang. So if you're saying, what happened is outrageously wrong, and you're putting energy into that, you're part of the fight. You've entered the fight, or entered the dance of samsara. The compassion and the dharma leads you outside of the fight, outside of the dance of samsara. So, things are difficult, but we have to face these difficulties with true compassion. Otherwise you're stuck in it and you're never going to get out. And it will always be someone hurt me, something's bad, I don't like it, blame, good, bad, and then you're always going to be stuck in that. I'm not stuck in that. If a cop pulls me over, beats me up, shoots me, if I become one of those next videos, I will die with compassion for the cop. I won't be mad. It would have been, you could say, an injustice or whatever. But I'm beyond this is good and this is bad. I mean, I recognize these difficulties, but I face difficulties, even the difficulties of this time, which I understand from experience. Bodhisitta, with compassion, with the Dharma, and I transform the adverse conditions into the pathway of awakening. I'm doing that right now.

0:45:02
a game of good and bad.

0:45:05
What side are you on? We're such a bifurcated world or country. It's Buddhist duality. Friend, enemy. Black, white. Democrat, Republican. What side are you on? And you hate the other. I don't hate the other. I have compassion for both. Hate the other. I don't hate the other. I have compassion for both.

0:45:30
Don't.

0:45:31
Don't hate. Don't react. When you find yourself reacting with energy, that's the surface.

0:45:40
We must be more reflective and come from the heart.

0:45:45
I'm living proof of this. Because what's going on right now, all the trouble in this country, I've seen it. I've been it. My friends have been killed. Or the system has been so horrible they end up in prison or on drugs. I'm like, I kept saying that, I'm like, how many of my friends are still like alive or at a prison? Aaron made it out at least. That was a long time ago, but he's probably back in.

0:46:11
Why not?

0:46:13
I have compassion for him. So So, don't hate, don't be negative, don't let the intense craziness of what's happening in this world, in our country, don't let it get you onto a side. You're like, oh my gosh, this is terrible. They killed people, so let's kill them. So they killed someone, and then you kill them, and that makes you the person who killed

0:47:23
someone.

0:47:24
Let's kill the killers. That's what I hear any time someone's like, this is wrong. They're passionate about it, and it is wrong on the surface, in karma. So you have to say, am I going to be a karma person or a dharma person? This is a lesson of bodhichitta. A karma person is always yin and yang, trying to fix and this is right and this is wrong. They're always just going through karma. Like, oh, you did something bad. Well, it has to be fixed. Here's how logically I'm going to fix it, according to the way I understand things. And then you end up in a forever loop of righting wrongs, of seeing bad, of blaming, and trying to fix. That's samsara. And you suffer. You're unhappy. You're upset. You're angry. You're pissed off. So don't do that. If you have bodhicitta, you transcend that. And you transcend it. You're not a victim of the bad thing. And you're not a yin against a yang. That's fighting against something. In Bodhicitta you open your heart to both good and bad. In Bodhicitta you have compassion for the side that you're sympathetic for and also the other side. All beings suffer and when people suffer that's sometimes when they hurt people and I see that even in people say even on the protesters. To me it's yin and yang. It's the opposites, which makes the whole problem, which is the fight. That's why I say we need to have compassion. And especially Buddhist monks and spiritual seekers need to practice compassion. Don't be riled up. Don't get fired up and angry and like, oh, it's outrageous. If it's so outrageous and if you're so fired up, bring it all into your heart. Bring it all into powerful compassion. I do that. I spend, since the protests have been growing, after my meditation, I come out and I just in a very intense way, a very painful time. And it drives me to very strong compassion. And I sit for hours in Bodhisitta. I become the energy of Bodhisitta, the light of compassion.

0:50:43
And the pain goes away.

0:50:45
And there's wisdom and understanding and resolution.

0:50:54
This is what I'm sharing with you.

0:50:56
This is the truth and this is the enlightened dharma. The way out of suffering and conflict. So don't get riled up. If there's any energy that makes you upset, drive it all into compassion. Transform the adverse condition into the pathway of awakening. Because it's the only thing that works. You walk out, go do protest, yell, scream, join all this yin-yang, samsara energy, you're gonna be angrier. Ain't gonna get solved ever. You solve it in compassion, you solve it in the Dharma, there's resolution. So, I really don't recommend that my students go out and protest. Why do you think I have to protest as an act of anger and reaction? That's not Dharma. I recommend that you do what I do. I resolve this in my compassion, in my heart. My bodhisitta is where I resolve this. And let me reiterate, I know what's going on. I live this. I've been there. I've had probably more experiences than any of you. So I'm not fake. I'm for real. In compassion. In bodhisitta and transmuting this difficult hardship and this horrible situation. It's very painful for me. I know what it is, but I don't get angry. I don't have negative reaction. I have the historical disposition and personal history, which I understand. So, if you go out to protest, you're part of the fight. A Buddhist monk, a spiritual practitioner, goes beyond that. We go into the heart of things. We look at what's going on, we understand it. We don't have attachments to be on a side. We're seeing suffering on both sides. We do bodhicitta for all. All is bodhicitta. It's true. Compassion isn't like, I like this one person, I don't like this other person. for the racists. I do. I have compassion for these people who killed people wrongfully. It's not the end of them. Maybe they learned from it. Maybe this is their lifetime where just in one moment. We have compassion is where we create an energy where people can change and transform. I mean if we just say, if we fix, this is bad, he is bad, they are And that's your fixed condition. Your ego is stuck in a horrible situation. Compassion is the way out.

0:55:16
Have compassion.

0:55:17
I have so much compassion for the injustice and the suffering of people. But I have equal compassion for those others who we see as the ones who hurt and harm. And if you can't do that, then you're stuck. You're stuck in a karma. I'm not stuck in that karma. So, don't let yourself get riled up. Don't let injustice that you see. If it hurts, bring it into compassion. If you see suffering, then have strong compassion.

0:56:26
Good.

0:56:27
And then grow it for everyone, including the person who persecuted them, who hurt them, who harmed them. Be harmed. So this is a school of for real compassion. It's not a bunch of bullshit. So don't just sit there and get angry. If you're angry, I want to see you open your heart. I want to see you practice some true bodhicitta. If you got some anger, transform adverse conditions into the path they're going. Be for real. If this is a tough time in your mind, be for real. Learn that these teachings are true and powerful.

0:57:28
I did.

0:57:29
And if anyone's got a worse African-American racist story, worse than mine, I haven't even told you all mine. Then tell me. I'll have compassion for you. I'll understand. I can listen. But I'm not kidding around here. I'm for real in this. And I have 100% compassion. So I'm an example of truth. And I'm teaching the truth of what to do now. You think we got it back here in America? In the early 70s, after the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia was finally put down, the Khmer Rouge killed millions of people. Millions. Totally massacres of people, the killing fields, right? And they had a big encampment. I think the UN was actually helping, where hundreds of thousands of people fled their villages, their various encampments, and everyone there had family members who had been murdered, killed, raped, terrible, horrific acts of war. And then the war finally ended, but this camp is still here, and people are like, all upset, and what are we going to do? There's the great teaching I say very often. Buddha taught. He said, in this world, hate has never yet dispelled hate. Only love dispels hate. This is the law, ancient and exhaustible. This means, if you're reacting to something that, oh, it hurt me, so I'm gonna react back. Hate, negativity, blame, this is bad, it never stops it. It only goes into the cycle of it. In this world, hate has never yet dispelled hate. Only love dispels hate. So we practice love and compassion. It's the only way.

1:00:27
You want to be angry?

1:00:28
You want to point blame? You are caught up in a world of pain. Love and compassion are the way out. Everyone in, so we think we got it bad. Everyone in this camp, hundreds of thousands of people, are having a tough time. War was over, they're going to go back to their villages, everyone's confused, very difficult. Buddhist monk comes over, famous Buddhist monk in Cambodia, gets up on the speaker, the mic, and that's all he says is Buddhist teaching. Hate has never dispelled hate, only love dispels hate. This is the truth. And then he said it again and again. And everyone started chanting it. So they chanted for hours. The Dharma, the truth. It's the only way to get on, to understand, to have release and recognition and healing. It's the Dharma. It's not the way of the self. No matter what happens to you, the worst thing, the worst things happen to you, your friends, your family, whatever, you have to resolve it in Dharma. Powerful teaching by the Buddha and a true teaching. So, this is If we're seeing things that are bad and wrong and horrible, if we have reactions that are spicy, angry, explosive, all this stuff, right? Hate never resolves it. Love resolves it. This is why I practice compassion for the killers, the offenders, the racists. in a Bodhisitta meditation with you. I'd like to meditate with you for one song. We're going to do relative Bodhisitta, Tom Len, taking and sending, for real. And I'd like you to transmute and transform the adverse conditions of this country, of our people, and the world, into the pathway to enlightenment. I'd like you to practice compassion. So we're going to sit nice and straight. Bring to mind whatever your feelings are first. If you see wrong, bad, up, down, have compassion for that. If you see certain people prosecuted, hurt, you know, George Floyd, you know, then have compassion for him. And let's grow it, all African Americans. African-Americans. We all got put here, we didn't come here on purpose, we all got put here in slavery and it didn't get us, yeah it got better, still a ways to go. Whatever you see as suffering, let's do Bodhicitta, which is transforming suffering into awakening. And if it hurts you, if you've had hardship, if you have some awareness, let's be for real.

1:04:55
All right, sit nice and straight and let's begin. Thank you. the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so so the the the the the the the the You This is what we can do. Instead of walking out into a protest and feeding an angry reaction, self-reaction and this is good and this is bad, sansara reaction

1:10:29
with my energy, I don't do that. And neither should you. You have a lot of power being connected to an enlightened lineage. But if you walk into a protest, you're igniting. You might ignite the people who go and go crazy and then go to a mom-and-pop business and steal things. Take an enlightened route. So many of these people who go to the protests, they don't have the awareness of enlightenment or the teaching I just gave, Tonglen, and how compassion solves this problem. They're stuck where they're stuck. Don't get stuck where they're stuck. Don't get into that karma. And do something that they can't do. Bodhisitta. Bodhisitta creates unity. It heals all. So, spend your time, attention, energy doing what can make such a difference, such a powerful difference. Doing Vaisita. Don't waste your time and energy going out with a bunch of angry people. You're not helping them. You're empowering their ego reaction. Is that your testament to what you want to do for people. Teach them to rage on because they're angry. You're going to join anger and reaction. Don't do that. Sit. Do bodhicitta for real. Until you see how powerful bodhicitta is. If you have it in you, if it's that hard, then make your bodhicitta so strong that you actually see what compassion is and what it does.

1:12:31
It's powerful.

1:12:32
Buddha stopped an elephant. It's powerful. Very powerful.

1:12:36
It's the highest power.

1:12:38
So...

1:12:39
We have, we just had, was it yesterday, a couple days ago, we had a meeting, the sanghas invited to these meetings, the diversity team had a meeting where we meditated. We did bodhicitta for our self-suffering and also bodhicitta for the suffering of all the people having a hard time with what's going on in our country. And then a discussion, a very positive discussion about how do we feel what's going on and what are people's experiences and how can we resolve these things with the teachings. And I was on the call, I didn't talk, and I thought that the diversity team leaders did a very good job. It was very beautiful, very positive, taking hard times and hardships and directing it towards the star. This is what we need to do. Now, we're going to have another one of these calls next week. you know, if you have any interest or any trouble with what's going on, that you join. It was very beautiful, very bright, very high, and this is the kind of thing that we need you to do. It also opened up, there was a conversation, so a lot of people need to talk about what's going on, like, how am I feeling this? And then to have, you know, senior students be able to say, I know too, I've been through that myself, and to learn how to resolve these things in Dharma and not in self-reaction. Now after that call I met with some of the leaders of the diversity team. I gave them a hard time, because that's what I do. I'll give you a hard time until there's no more hard time to give. No, I do. I really want you to be enlightened. I want you to get beyond personal self-suffering, right? And I will make corrections. So I've been to the team leaders. I'm so glad they came up. They came up with this idea and it was really beautiful. They didn't know I was there because I didn't sign on as SEMDAR. But it was really beautiful. So next time, you might be nice. I talked And then afterwards I met another Zoom meeting with the team and I gave them a hard time because I need them to be perfect at this. This is a really tough time and if they're going to be the leaders of the diversity team when we're facing what's going on in our country, they need to be saints. No, they have to have perfect practice. They have to have perfect compassion. Because if they have reaction in themselves, I'm like, you cannot, you can't lead, you can't teach. You have to be a perfect example. So I gave them a hard time.

1:16:17
That's what I do. That's my job.

1:16:19
I'm like, oh, I see an ego. I've got to point something out. And I do that in lots of ways. Like last week, I was all like, the Dalai Lama is so lame. And I'm like, a good thing that my, you know, my Tibetan Buddhist monks are not here. Oh, they are. I'm like, oh, we'll go into it some more. And I'm like, well, the Dalai Lama was like, basically, you know, this and I just like, I said the truth, but I said it in a difficult way. So it's kind of like, let's say for Catholics, like if I'm like, the Pope is kind of like an altar boy, but basically he got to be a Pope, but he's spiritually Catholics would be like, ahhhhhh! Yeah, but that's basically true, too. I mean, like, what level of attainment can you stop at? At least the Dalai Lama is like an intermediate student. And Pope's a nice guy. Beginner. And post-Nystagim, beginner. And so, gotta give everybody a hard time. You think I'm giving you a hard time? I am. And then that's why we have to, you know, bring all blame into one. If you have a, I disagree, I'm angry, then you need to have compassion. And also know, that's a koan. Well, that's a koan. So we also have coming up, one of our very advanced practices that we're gonna open up to the whole sangha. It is our bardo blessing. So myself and Savitri and Kamala are trained in the most advanced aspects of bardo yoga. And this means what happens after death? After you die, before you're reborn, you go through these intermediate stages of artists. We have a very deep understanding of all those stages, there's a lot of them, and all the things that happen. We have in our school this

1:19:04
It's a power, spiritual power to connect with, affect, aid people who have passed away.

1:19:06
Spiritually aid them, get them out of suffering, show them higher awarenesses. And after that, there's different places of the mind where you can go that are very beneficial. It elevates the spirit in ultimate outstanding ways. So Savitri and Kamala are fully trained in this and they're going to be giving this bardo recently. This is a bit unusual, but because so many people in our society are kind of connecting to their gut, it's going to bring another dimension of enlightenment and help. and look back then that you take it. All right, so I'd like to thank you all.

1:20:17
Be well.

1:20:18
Wash your hands, don't touch your face. I know we have all this crazy thing going on, I know we have all this crazy thing going on, but we also have the coronavirus.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
