0:00:00
All right, everybody. Welcome back. So we have a number of people who have wonderful experiences that they want to share, but we're going to do three. And we're just gonna go with those three. And so if you guys can keep it to, you know, somewhere between five and ten minutes, that'll be good. And then afterwards, we're gonna go into magical music from our value in the album. So is Dharma, Dharma, are you ready to go? All right, let's switch over to Dharma.

0:00:59
Hi everyone.

0:01:00
So I'd like to tell a story about AppBuddy. And it's a story of when a competitor stole our acquisition and we responded by transforming adversity into the pathway of our acquisition. So it was back in 2015, and we had built AppBuddy into a multi-million dollar company and was very successful for the scale that we were. And we got a lot of notice. We were doing good yoga, we got a lot of notice. And we had a potential acquirer express interest in us and we went through a whole process of diligence, of trying to sell ourselves for this acquisition and we were really, really close. We thought this was the one. And right at the very, very end, I get a phone call. I get a phone call that they decided not to move forward with us. Long story short. And then we find out a couple months later that our number one competitor was the company that they decided to acquire instead. Now naturally, this was devastating to us. This felt really, really like a blow. Because not only did we work so hard for this, but now we were actually facing a way better funded competitor that had just gotten acquired by a $6 billion private equity company. So now they had resources. They were, they had big guns, right? So what we did instead of, now there was a natural tendency to feel that we were down, we wanted to give up, and that this was the end. And that was around the time, I believe that was around the time that Ajahn gave us this Lojahn teaching of transforming, of actually your enemies promoting you. And in that teaching, I think for me it was such a powerful scene because it showed me that this experience is actually showing us the way. This experience is actually showing us the way to the next step because we didn't actually know the next step in the way of Dharma without this experience. And what this did was it actually got us to practice Dharma even more intensely and greater. How did that happen? It happened in a few ways. One is that we really, really stepped up our practice of compassion. So we started as a team, we were good, but we didn't really, you know, we had our difficulties working with each other. And what we did was we came together. We came together even stronger. We recognized what was going on. We were honest with ourselves as far as like, hey, this is what happened. This was the why. And this is the why that this happened and what are we gonna do about it? And then through that recognition and actually through the care that we had for each other, we came together and we changed. So we changed a great deal in our company. We created a team that was called Kick Ass Face. We did not lose our sense of humor because we called our competitor Ass Face for many reasons. But anyways, that's an inside joke. But we had the kick ass face team. And the kick ass face team came up with technology solutions that were directly going against our competitor in a way where we met them with a better solution, right? So we didn't just say, hey, our way is better and we're gonna defend our way. We said, no, we actually have to listen to our customers and listen to why they decided to choose these guys and some of our competitive wins, right? So then we also had more compassion for our customers. We started to listen to them more and we started to incorporate what they did. So we really just, instead of trying to, I know we definitely had to play the competitive game and we had to fight and come up with features that were one for one better with these guys. But we also did it in a way of compassion where we ourselves just became a better company. We didn't bad mouth them and actually our competitors were bad mouthing us very much. And every time we talked to competitors, we just became more of a stand up company and promoted a more enlightened way of doing things. Our way of doing things as far as an enlightened way of software, an enlightened way of using software, which is so core to our teachings and so core to our practice. And also just an enlightened way of customer success and an enlightened way of being, right? And an enlightened way of working together. I think our team in those final years before our true acquisition came together better than we ever have before. And we just continually learned and saw that that was the way. The way was actually in unity and in love to come together and to work for something that we really, really deeply cared about. And our field of care actually increased more as a result. We really, really cared about our customers. We really cared about our community, and we cared about our competitors too. We didn't have anything bad against our competitors. We said, okay, well, they showed us the way, and this is actually, thank you, this is great, right? And then this also opened up a whole new field of seeing where we actually saw the way to our acquisition, which was to build a new technology that made us more attractive and eventually led to our success. So I don't think we could have dreamed this situation. I don't think this is, we couldn't have made up the situation. And actually the situation led to the highest Dharma that our yoga company could have followed. So thank you very much. That's the story of Aplaty transforming this very, very difficult situation into the way of awakening.

0:07:42
Thank you.

0:07:44
All right. So, thank you Dharma. It was very beautiful. Wow. Yeah, so many adventures in the App Buddy Company on its way to success. So many troublemakers. So, Darma gave a talk about one of the troublemakers, which was one competitor that, you know, it was a, that was a big troublemaker because we were about to get this big acquisition and then it fell through and our competitor got it. And the competitor only started competing. Like we were the first of this technology on the market. They saw us, and they said, we're going to compete with you. And then they ended up beating us in that battle, you know. But it led us to learn more and to grow more. And, yeah, we never had a — we actually never had a conflict with a competitor, the competitors always gave us a way to say, okay, how do we grow from here? How do we become stronger? Make new technology, care more about our customers? So what Dharma showed was just a very, very, very beautiful thing that we did in real life, yoga and in corporate America. So it's really beautiful.

0:09:14
Is Tsu Wang ready? All right, we're gonna move on to Tsu Wang.

0:09:19
Thank you.

0:09:20
I want to share in my life, I have a lot of experience. From that experience I learned,

0:09:25
one of my best experience in 2000, 2005 when I was in second final year that time I learned one of the best lesson in my life. That was in the Institute we have almost 300 students and in the 300 students now you can imagine there is good bad. Now some of the students I don't know what they think, but what they have done is that time they, in the institute we have our three gembal, means one of the, in Buddhism we call highest teacher and one of the teacher is so strict, so disciplined and then some of the students student doesn't like him. Even I also a little bit I don't like it because of his strict. And some of the students what they have done is, in the weekend everybody was sleeping in that time. And they in the morning I think in the morning 4am that time they come to his room. That time the Khenpo was not in the room he was in his house. Then they destroy his door by, what do you say, by annex, good annex, and they destroy everything. I think they come to some to kill him or beat him, I don't know, some student. But who is the student? Two or three I know at that time. Then I was, Everybody was worried, what happened, what to do. And most of the students were in one way we think, okay this is one way he is so straight enough. I am also a little bit happy in my heart, okay he did something. Then what I learned that time, then that Khenpo never inspect who did it, what he did. He never say any words for months. He just repaired his door, window, everything. He just did it like that. Then after a month, which the person who destroyed his room and window, everything, he became very close to the Khenpo. He goes to them. He treats them like that. He invites them to his home. And he talks very nice. He becomes very nice to them. Then after few months, then the dead who destroyed everything, his door, everything. They confess to teacher. sorry because we destroy your your door window we are the responsibility and everything like that and it all confessed to the Khenpo and Khenpo said no don't worry I know I know you are you you are the people who destroyed my door doesn't matter that is time is gone past that time maybe you have that time you have a situation condition in circumstances you have thought thoughts come negative and that negative comes make you do the action. That's why today you realize and you confess. That is the grace and he say that that time he said that is the great teaching of the Buddhist that you confess and you forget. Now you will forget everything. That was, when he said to students like that, which I also thought was a little bit negative at that time, it made me so regret that. Without knowing to judge other people is so wrong. Then I became so close to the teacher, especially that Kembo. I close to him, I talk with him. Then I become one of his best, like a best friend when I complete my education. He was the one who guide me what to do. Until today I come, I reach to America also because of him, he's guided to these two. That time I realized how to forgiveness, how to be a compassion and without saying any words, just do something good. Automatically, other people will realize their focus and they will do everything good. That is the one lesson in my life, one of the best lessons I learned from my teacher. That's it.

0:14:20
I'll stop there.

0:14:21
So, oh my gosh, confessions of the bad boys of Buddhist monasteries, and see Kim and Tibetan

0:14:33
Buddhists.

0:14:34
I've never heard a story like that.

0:14:36
That's hilarious.

0:14:37
I love it. They're all like, where's all that of this guy? And then it's such a beautiful story that he just, he, they think he's so stern and mean, so they do something bad to him.

0:14:52
But he wasn't mean.

0:14:54
He was strict. So that's really a very beautiful story. And now we're going to move on to the last story, which is Shuri. The Shuri story.

0:15:07
Thank you.

0:15:09
recapitulations of the story of the female engineer given a hard time by her tech lead. So I thought I'd give some perspective on that. So I was hired in 2018 by Google as a contractor in an engineering position. And I was the only woman on a team of 15 engineers. And my tech lead, who was not my manager, he was the technical lead, he really obviously gave me a very hard time in a way that was, it felt very clearly unfair. So I knew this was a place of power and I knew that I could do it. And if I was there, I was qualified. So I worked as hard as I could to learn the technology, put in the extra time, show up early, learn the algorithms, learn all of those things in computer science education that I may have sort of skipped on my way to becoming an engineer. So I did the work. And I saw in many, many clear cases of being pushed down and discrimination, I looked into his eyes and I saw suffering. And I knew that my life was good. And if he was treating me this way, he was probably every day for about a year. And I also simultaneously gathered a file of code reviews, links, comments, building the case to present what was very clearly some sort of unfair treatment and was hurting me. But I didn't plan to use it as a weapon. I wanted to help him see, because as Savitri put it, there is innate goodness in all people, and I knew he didn't want to be harmful. So I held on to that folder for a while, but then I actually decided to leave. So a year had passed, and I went to my manager, and I said, I can't do this anymore. I'm out. And I told him why. And I came in with compassion and power. I didn't come in with resentment. I just very clearly said that I was ready to leave and end my contract because of this treatment. But then my manager saw this, and he saw my work and he said, well, maybe we can work something out. And so he offered me a full time position. And Google is notoriously one of the most difficult companies in the world to get a full time position in. So I took the challenge. And getting hired involves having multiple technical interviews with people you don't know, not on your team. So I took what Simbar calls Buddhist revenge. And I did the work and I nailed all of my technical interviews and I was hired full time. And then my tech lead was stuck with me. And then we came to each other and we said we have to work together. And I presented him some of the findings I had with his treatment towards me. And he looked at them and he started crying. And he said, I can only look at this to come to one conclusion. And I said, yeah, you know, and it has hurt me. And he transformed. And he opened up and he told me that he was suffering deeply on the inside. And so I actually spoke the Dharma to him and I started speaking about suffering, the causes of suffering, and how we're not separate and we all have innate goodness and want to treat each other well. And so he became my ally and he transformed and he started meditating every day. And we now work together in harmony and I have a really supportive work environment. And it was a it was a time that was difficult, but I saw that he had suffering and I saw that we could work together and that our suffering was not different. So thank you.

0:19:56
And that's my story.

0:19:57
Wow, thank you, Shori. That was a very beautiful experience.

0:20:02
I remember, I remember that year where she was going through all the trouble, all the hardship, and she was just practicing compassion, Bodhicitta. And then, it's an amazing story. Very, very, very beautiful. The outcome was the Dharma. Very beautiful. So we're going to move on now to the Vayu album, India. And Jing is going to introduce things to you.

0:20:52
And Jing is a member of the Dharma Villa.

0:20:57
Hi everyone, my name is Jing. I will introduce you today to the two new songs of the Indie album. These two songs will be third eye songs. The first song is Arunachala Temple song. Arunachala Temple is in Tirunelai, next to Mount Arunachala. It's a very huge temple with many buildings. There is one building, one polygon there, where there is a Patalalingdum in the center of the room. You can see a picture of that in the left bottom corner of the slide. You can actually go down there and you can feel and tap into that dimension. It's a very We visited this temple, we went there first, we tapped into the dimension of this pot of a lingam and then we sat down next to it and we meditated there. And this song was actually inspired about my experience in this meditation. While we were sitting there and I stopped my thoughts, all of a sudden, a very horrifying, monstrous looking guardian showed up with a giant mouth with a thousand teeth in the mouth and all of a sudden he just started to bite on my body. And my act on this was, oh, interesting, monstrous looking being, can you please actually bite on my painful body parts? Because that day I had so much pain all around my body. So I offered my painful body parts, and this being started actually biting all of my painful body parts. And when I noticed why it was chewing on me, all the pain actually got dissolved. And all of a sudden, after a while, it finished chewing, it stood up in front of me, looking at me like, I don't have any more painful body parts, but I have painful karmas, so I would like to offer you, if you can. And then the monster went for the painful karmas, and it started to chew on that too, and what I felt, again, it got dissolved, no more painful pulling back or pulling down. Not a while all the karmas that I was able to offer was chewed up and really stood in front of me. And I felt gratitude, I was really grateful for all this experience, so I offered the highest dharma that I could, a compassionate enlightened light. And as soon as I offered and the being received it, it transformed to amazing gold, God with thousands of arms, and radiating pure gold light on me and all around me and filled up the room. So I really wanted to share this experience with others, so after I came back from India, by Asmongra, who is another member of the music team, to work on a song with me, because I wanted to share this experience. So, on this song, you will see in the beginning, we selected flute to represent the monster experience. Also, we selected organ and piano for representing the deep, silent stillness that you can feel So please sit up straight and focus on your third eye.

0:25:18
Begin. so the the the the so so the the the the so the the the the the the the the the the the the Wonderful. The next song I would like to introduce you is Yogiram Sivatkumar.

0:30:04
Yogiram Sivatkumar is an enlightened saint in Thiruvanilai. He dropped his body a few years ago. He lived most of his life as a beggar and that's how he referred to himself as well, this beggar, he lived in harmony with the universe, he never did anything other than doing basically what the universe told him to do. We visited his ashram and we met with one of her disciples or followers who took care of him and she told us many great stories about him. One of the major things that really struck me in my still practices she always told everyone use God's name because God will help you and basically he is a God so say or ask Yogiram Sridhar Kumar and he will help you. And it's true. That's how, for example, I look for a parking spot anywhere, anytime when I go, or if you have, or I have any challenges or hard time or facing difficulties, I always ask Yogiram Surath Kumar, please help with this or please help with that. And that's actually what we did when we had our yoga company's acquisition and Yogiram Surath Kumar really helped out and we had a successful acquisition as well. So, please feel free to use Yogi Ram Surat Kumar, it really helps. So the inspiration of the song was the mantra. I have sung something like this, Yogi Ram Surat Kumar, Yogi Ram Surat Kumar, Yogi Ram Surat Kumar, da-da-da-da-dum. So this was the inspiration of the song. It's the song of my brother. So, because Yogi and Sulakumar were very unique, was very unique, his life was very unique. He was a Samaritan, so he lived most of his life as a beggar, multiple times. His disciples asked him to move in a house or a room, but he refused it until later on he became sick and needed some care and then we moved in a room. But because he was so unique and so unconventional, what we did in the song, we selected different certain elements that wouldn't really work together well, and we used also very uncommon terms. He never took the easy way on this song. You will hear there are multiple different kinds of instruments, what we infuse together. And, very interestingly, it works in harmony together. Same how Yogiramskulakumar lived in harmony with the universe and in sync. These instruments work together very well. So in his ashram there was this instrument that used drums and bells a lot. So you will see lots of bells and drums. So I selected taiko drums for this song to hold this very nice universe, structure. And we used, for example, bells to create melody. We used Celtic elements in this song. So it's very different, unique elements, but mixed very nicely together. So, I invite you to the magical universe of Yogi Nandaswamy's Kumar. Please focus on

0:33:50
your third eye, and let's begin.

0:33:53
Thank you. Oh the the the the so the the the the so so so so so So Thank you so much for your attention. Thank you, Jean. That was very beautiful. So, these are powerful examples of the teaching, how to deal with troublemakers. So Dharma's story was a story of dealing

0:39:46
with a very intense competitor and being advanced by dealing with the difficulty. And that allowed him and his company of yogis to succeed in their yoga and to have a very large acquisition. And this was what created a success in yoga in our sangha to create the opportunity for the advanced teachings. So before this yogic success, there were intermediate students for many years, but with the success of this yoga, it brought the advanced teachings. And it was thanks to the troublemakers. So Wong's story is very beautiful. So Wong is a Buddhist monk, Tibetan Buddhist monk, and seek him. And there's a Khenpo who people get mad at. He's a troublemaker for people. Then they create trouble for him. And then they see his wisdom and his compassion. And this is something that the Wang saw in this great teacher, this very wise teacher. Akempo is the highest teacher. And this is something that was so inspiring for Tsuang that he himself, you know, was propelled by this kind of seeing this compassion and this wisdom. He was propelled to become also Akempo himself. It was very, very beautiful. And Shori's story is a very powerful story, right? I think you can all recognize that. Because that's something that you don't usually see in the corporate world, the powerful transformation from someone always hurting you, to someone seeing the light and understanding the Dharma and practicing the Dharma. That's a very, very powerful story. Not fighting, not trying to hate the hater, beat the troublemaker, kill the killer. But there's a lot of acceptance. It's a long story, too, a dharma story, too. There's a lot of acceptance.

0:42:34
And then using wisdom and compassion to transform that difficulty into a greater dharma for

0:42:45
all.

0:42:46
Win-win. Win-win. Those are three stories of win-win. So the story of the temple, Arunachala. This is also a troublemaker. Like, this was a, you know, a mean spirit. If you don't want to call it a demon, you can call it a malignant entity. And this was a direct experience that she had, Jane, and this was an advanced technique, but it's dealing with a troublemaker. This thing wants to eat you. If you're wise, you give it the right part to eat. Here, I don't want this part. So, um, but this was dealing with, like, I mean, this would scare the pants off of a lot of people. Some scary ghost comes over to you and wants to eat something, but with wisdom you can say, here, let me feed you something. Something that you're going to eat and I don't want. That's a wise way of dealing with a demon. And then Yogi Ram Sivakumar. So, the story about him, he was from North India. He lived near Delhi. There was this great teacher, an enlightened teacher, who just came to him in his mind. Vivekananda came to him in his mind and said, You've got to leave North India. You've got to go to the south of India. Go to Arunachala. And there are spiritual giants there, is what he said. So he leaves North India. And there he was doing a little spiritual practice, but then when he got to South India he found an enlightened teacher and then he became liberated. And then his teacher said, yeah, just go out on your own and you're going to be a great teacher yourself. So he goes out of his ashram and he's on the streets of the town, Tiruvannamalai, And he experiences extreme racism. Because in the south of India, they weren't extremely happy about people from the north of India. They felt subjugated by them, so they were angry at them. And so this guy, you know, didn't speak the local language and spoke Hindi. And he was discriminated against. He was a yogi and most yogis will beg for food. People didn't give him food. He was beaten, almost run over a couple times, and thrown in the gutter. So he didn't experience... He was an enlightened yogi, but because he spoke Hindi, he was rejected by the local people. He was rejected by the local people for many many years But yet he would still be on the street and he would sing and dance and Express enlightenment and then eventually people started to see Miracles happen around him and then they started to listen, started to see, and then finally they saw that he was enlightened, even though he was not of the proper race. And then eventually he became a very, very powerful figure of enlightenment in this extremely enlightened area. In Tiruvannamalai, where he lived, his ashram is the largest ashram. It's this giant, wonderful ashram in a very beautiful place, beautiful space. So he became very, very successful as a teacher, where most of his life, when he was in Tiruvannamalai, he was discriminated against. And he went through great hardship with no anger, with no resentment and just compassion and love for enlightenment and God. And then that won everyone over. That's the way that we do things. And one of my students, Sarvanan, was fortunate enough to know him. And Sarvanan did a great act of yoga because Sarvanan was the construction manager for building this giant ashram.

0:48:29
So that's very beautiful.

0:48:30
But Saravanan is very fortunate for knowing this great being. So I'd like to thank you all very much. It's very wonderful sitting with you today.

0:48:41
This is very beautiful day of dharma. This is very beautiful day of dharma.

0:48:42
So be well.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
