0:00:00
Alright everyone, this is just a great, wonderful time and amazing solstice moment. And we are going to go on into some very important transmissions. So as in the teaching, we are recapitulating, we are bringing together times of power, times where we did very specific things to help the Dharma, to help each other. I mean, like all of these things are to help each other. You are here because you help someone else. And we're bringing those times in our mind where I helped someone, I did some dharma, I did a little bit of extra something and what was it for me? You know, in helping someone or paying something, what did I do that brought me some power? We're bringing this all together. This is extremely powerful. So for the whole group, we had our powerful moments, but these are the groups of seva, these are the groups of yoga, these are the groups of selfless determinators of the sangha. So this is something that is next level and a very important thing. So we're going to have our meditations, empowerment, and I wanted to do this on the beach together, but that would be crazy. And that would be crazy in so many ways. So we're gonna do it here. And believe me, look me in the eye, it's gonna work.

0:01:51
Okay?

0:01:52
So we're gonna do this.

0:01:53
So I'd like you to sit up straight. What's our first group? Our first group is yogas that have reached their solstice goals and we'll go one by one

0:02:00
on each of the yoga projects. So we'll start with Savory Bar. All right. Well, I wish I could have the Savory Bar right now. All right. So we're going to

0:02:11
walk through every single yoga, every single sabha, every single implementation that you've done. And we're not together, you know, sitting on a beach, because that might be kind of crazy, waves, you know, all that stuff. But we're here together. So I want you to be very present, because these moments where we're talking about this, where we're focused on this, when we bring our focus to this, the whole sangha and me, it's powerful. So Savory Bar, it's our first yoga. I'd like you all to sit up nice and straight. And everyone who's been on Savory Bar, here's what we got to do. We have to think Savory Bar. What was it to you? And I want you to not think just hardship and struggle, but what is the magic? What's the yoga? And everyone on every yoga, what is the magic? What is it? Because Nalarapa had to build a whole bunch of towers and he was not happy about it much of the time. And let's say Ijeya and Dharma and Parvati and everyone else on that party. Was it the funnest, jolliest thing? Was it hard or easy? No, maybe it was hard, but there was something extremely powerful about it. So hard, difficult, it's not what we're looking at. We're looking at what is enlightening. So Savory Bar is our first consideration. And we're going to go through all considerations with knowing and Savory Bar knows this. It was hard, it is hard, it's not the end of the universe, it's not the end, we didn't hit the top of the top, we're working on it, we are working on it, we are all working on it, from yoga something happened there's a spark of light. This is our time to recognize that light, that spark of light. So for all yogas, all givings, all of these special offerings we have to say what is it? Because when we see something something powerful whether it's a yoga or a group of people who bring you know like like the Yana yoga and Yana was a great beautiful spiritual friend the months, 24-7. So when we help the Sangha, there's power there. So all of these, like, insights, all of these works, all of these things that you've done, these are things that empower the Sangha. And they empower us. We bring them together now and we are empowered now. Yogas, businesses, seva for the sangha, helping the sangha. All of these things we bring together now because these are the greater things that make our contribution to our next evolution stronger. So, sit up nice and straight. We're going to begin with the savory part.

0:06:07
So So so So Yoga project that reached their solstice goals is Buddha Dojo. Buddha Dojo. Oh my gosh. Okay. All right, so we're, we're going to go right into song after song after song. So Buddha

0:08:32
Dojo all members of the Buddha Dojo yoga. Wow good tone. But let's continue.

0:08:41
so And I'm sure she's so cheerful about it. you Thank you. So, The next project is legal desk. Thank you. The next project is Sambara Websites. so The next project is Reprocare. you So the Next project is Yama Yoga. This is Javalytics. This is Javalytics. so Next yoga project is music team. so The next project is Mentor Amp. It's a new project. so And the final yoga that reached their solstice goals is real estate yoga. so so so Next, Empowerments are for Siva Points. So so The next is between 10 and 19 saver points. You so The final sabot group is 20 or more sabot points. Music Hold in your mind what you did. You can say it's not much, whatever. Hold in your mind the things you did to qualify for this point. so Oh, The next group were those who donated or helped Yoji in the Hungarian Sangha. Thank you. you Oh The next group is Bodie Woods residents. This could be historical or current residents and owners. I'm going to mine the highest one. Thank you. The next group is those who signed up for Eurovision. so Next group is Udo Dojo. Thank you.

0:18:49
so

0:18:59
Next up is Soong's Seva, both one-time and monthly donations. Thank you. the the the the Next group is the setup crew. Next group are the Karyogis. The next group are the Karyogis. so so Next, we have the ROM Rempeche website helpers and SEO team.. Oh, so Next is the YanaCare group. Next is the Yana Care group. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Music The next group is the Crystal Hall Builders in Bodie Woods. so you Next is the music team. you so So Next, we Next we have the Enlightenment Workbook Translators for all languages. so Music Next we have the safety team. so The last empowerment we have today is the Sarvanaan Seva group, either one-time donations Thank you. you so so so So, so so so All right, wonderful. Please, write down your experiences. So in this consideration of recapitulation of the

0:49:22
most powerful experiences that you've had in yoga, take these moments, maybe you had a great meditation, great spiritual voyage in the Anza Burrigo, but take these considerations, the places of power where you put in Seva, where you put in effort and help, and take these times and say, what is the power there for me? What did I do that is strong? What's powerful? So, consider not only for your own personal benefit, but which we did previously, but this, what was powerful in this raver. Make it concrete. Make it concrete.

0:50:15
And thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
