0:00:00
Vody, is this the advanced group? So only advanced students? Yes.

0:00:10
Okay, good.

0:00:11
It's important because I try to be polite to new students. There's so many new students.

0:00:21
I'm pretty polite to them, right? And also the ST5s. But this is maybe your first time.

0:00:24
this is where I like to do what I like to do I call it fuck you motherfucker and then I've got two mudras. Rathosambara says, here's your enlightenment. Who do you think you are? Fuck you. You want to fight? Let's do it You think you're better you think you know more what? Let's do it then then step up because I will I will I will face you face to face Come on, this is like a it's like the Enlightenment fight Rama used to say Nigga what the fuck? And he said, nigga, what the fuck? And he was right.

0:02:05
And I say it too.

0:02:06
You wanna step up?

0:02:07
Face to face. Let's do it.

0:02:09
You think? Look at your bullshit. You think that's real? You think you're so smart?

0:02:14
You're so powerful?

0:02:15
You have so much inside?

0:02:16
Fuck you. It's true. I mean, no honestly, I'm open to it, please. If you have all of it in your heart and that's what you need to do, then meet me in person and see me and let's have a definitive expression. You think you can beat me in a fight? Let's fight. You think you're right? Well, let's meet. Let's come together and do it. No, really. And ST1s and ST2s, like, think about that. You had all sorts of shit that you thought about Rama. Face him with it. He will crush that shit. And I'm not Rama, but let him crush that shit and get the fuck out of here.

0:03:30
With the self.

0:03:32
No, really. That's the way it is? You can't beat me in a fight. I'd love it if you could beat me in a fight, then I'll be your student You'll be my sensei But can you beat me in a fight? Then don't complain bitch ass niggas

0:03:53
I can say that cuz I'm a bitch ass nigga myself

0:03:56
So fuck you! All right, we're gonna go on from here. This is called wrathful sambal. Which I spent most of my teachings being very wrathful. I mean, I've opened my heart to allow more people to be here, to be very nice. I'm not very nice. I'm a martial artist. Since I was six, I will fucking kill you. Don't fuck with me. It's true. Right? I mean, no, I'm not kidding. How many fights have you been in? Come on. I've been in fights. I've been in fights. I've fought. I've fought fist to fist, hand to knife, hand to gun. Motherfucker. Wanna fuck with me? Don't fuck with me. Or if you wanna fuck with me, then listen to me. You tell me everything you wanna need to hear. I need to say something, cause it's my spirit. Meet with me, face to face.

0:05:18
And guess what?

0:05:19
I will crush you where you're at. I don't care where you're at, I will crush you. Just like Rama will crush you. Hello, welcome to Wrathful Samvara. Didn't know that I was wrathful didn't see that side I got many faces don't fuck with me I will fucking destroy you I will don't mess with me asshole jerk fuck you and it's time I loved it the first time I met Rama, he said, fuck you. It helped me so much. So advanced students, fuck you. Fuck you. Are you kidding me? Are you, are you joking with me? Hey, any one of you who was like, well, I have a different opinion. Come to me, start up a villa, put on an N95 mask and some gloves, and I will kick your fucking ass.

0:06:37
Right?

0:06:38
No, no, please. Please be better than me. Please kick my ass. Because no, I'm honestly open. if you have a better way you met another teacher you have some other fucking opinion and if you can beat me I will learn from you you will be my sensei but You guys, I mean, look, come on now. What do you got? What's all your great wisdom? Does it bring you peace? All of your criticisms bring you pain. You fucking idiot. All of your problems that... I'm trying to learn karate, but I don't like it. I'm trying to make money and I do but I don't like it. What the fuck is your problem? You're an asshole. You're a self. Ego.

0:07:48
I'm not ego.

0:07:49
Kick my ass. Beat the shit out of me. Tell me all the things. I don't get hurt. I don't get hurt. I don't get any suffering from it. So fuck you. What are you going to do? Complain? Whatever, fuck. I'm talking to the advanced know I'm a my main mean in my heart I have a wrathful energy it's destruction of the fucking ego you idiots and this is what my teacher gave me I was a fucking idiot and I had my whatever self and all sorts of shit and he beat the shit out of me The teachings are not to be like oh, oh

0:08:58
I'm gonna be uplifted into a higher self I'm gonna be

0:09:03
Destroyed even your higher self Mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm,

0:09:12
mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm,

0:09:15
mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, Let's meet face to face. Let's fight. You want a victory over me in any dimension, any way? Well, let's get together. Let's do it. Because guess what? Fuck you. Sambara. Says fuck you. And guess what?

0:09:47
You can't do a god damn thing about it.

0:09:49
Except for be an asshole.

0:09:51
And you fucking know you're an asshole.

0:10:04
Mm, mm, mm.

0:10:06
You wanna try to be in a dojo and fuck around? Hell no, motherfucker. Fuck you, the sensei is gonna ax kick you to shit. No, no, no. I'm opening it up.

0:10:21
My dojo is open.

0:10:23
We don't have any social conditioning. We don't have masks. You got a problem? I'll fuck you up.

0:10:33
My job is...

0:10:36
So here's the job. I'm more powerful than you. I can kill you.

0:10:50
Yeah, I'll kill you.

0:10:51
I'll kill you the fuck out so that you're not even in this pathway of enlightenment. That's a kill. You're good at whatever you can do forever. You're complete. Get the fuck out of here. That's guilt. That means that everyone here is clear and fine and strong. I don't need to have bullshit. I got so much bullshit in so many ways and I've just been sitting there going, did you guys know this? That I was very polite for many years and this is what I used to do no bullshit hey you got a problem with me talk to me face to face and get the fuck out of here if you don't get higher right if you're interested in getting higher you want to help, you have a heart full of Dharma, then this is a way up. Me giving a hard time is a way up, a way of greatness. But if you're all confused, you're like, I have weird little thoughts, boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boop boop, then Samar says, fuck you! I don't care if you have weird fucking thoughts. I don't care if you have different ideas. How are you helping to make this school a rocket ship of enlightenment? Now that's a wonderful thing. If you have weird ideas and if you're mad, don't fight me.

0:12:50
Don't fight me.

0:12:51
I will crush you.

0:12:53
I will crush you.

0:12:54
Or you wanna try? Let's do a, I'm still young enough. I'm strong enough.

0:13:01
I will do a physical fight with you. Any one of you.

0:13:04
Any one of you who disagrees with me. Physical fight. Come to the backyard in Bodie Woods, line it up, we'll do a Zoom meeting for everyone to watch, and I will beat the shit out of you.

0:13:24
No?

0:13:25
You don't want that? You have different ideas? And you think things in different ways? Come on. Fuck you! It's a beautiful mantra that my teacher gave to me and he gave to you. Fuck you. Anyone who thinks Saboor is wrong, then get the fuck out of here. Or if you want to change the things that I'm doing, you want to change my dojo? Beat me in my dojo. Now, I got students who are good. I got students who are strong. And they have learned from my teachings. And they're strong. They're stronger than me. I mean, Bodhi, I met you when you were like 16. You're a better programmer than I was. You know, when I met Parvati and Dharma,

0:14:34
I told them about this Karma Yoga thing.

0:14:37
And I made a couple million dollars from Karma Yoga and I developed my skills. They became much stronger, greater yogis. And Ijeya, Ijeya, he was extremely strong in his business. He let it all go. And he joined Appadhi to make a sangha business so that people could be spiritually enhanced.

0:15:15
What did you do?

0:15:16
What the fuck did you do? I don't give a shit what you think, motherfucker.

0:15:21
I don't give a fuck what you think.

0:15:24
Step up. Where's your $30 million? Where's your big ass success?

0:15:31
Don't tell me shit.

0:15:32
I'm just laughing about it but come on motherfucker you have a problem with me I'm black I'm black as fuck I got pulled over more than you got pulled over I got negative more than you got negative so fuck you fuck you fuck you as from over say fuck you motherfucker it's true. You gotta stop this bullshit. You gotta stop this bullshit. Kali.

0:16:07
Lakshmi.

0:16:08
Fuck you.

0:16:09
Get the fuck out. You don't need to be here.

0:16:12
Any of you. You don't need to be here. You can do whatever the fuck you want, whatever the fuck you think. You can't beat me. You wanna come and beat me in a fight? Let's do it. You wanna beat me in a meditation? I'll beat the shit out of you. Come on. I'm a meditation master. I learned it from our teacher. And you're so cocky and so much bullshit. Fuck you. It's not my situation. It's your situation.

0:16:56
Don't say it. If you mean it,

0:17:00
don't think it. Because if you think it, you have a problem in your mind. If you think it, let's just sort it out in reality

0:17:18
Fuck you, here's my here's my mantra, okay

0:17:22
My mantra is fuck you my mood is fuck you and then hey, let's be friends. If you have a problem,

0:17:38
come to me. We can solve it.

0:17:41
If you can't solve it with me physically, with words, understanding and shit like that, then get the fuck out. Leave. You have to prove, I need to be in charge and I need to rule things and I have an opinion and guess what? What is your opinion done? What do you think? What the fuck is this? Get the fuck out of my dojo. Get out of here. You don't need to be here. You don't help. What did you do?

0:18:20
What did you build?

0:18:21
How many people?

0:18:22
Whatever the fuck out that's what see Sambara can do this dance cuz Sambara is the deal the real deal and your bullshit and if you're if you know if not in line with both you know with your bullshit if you're just all so bothered get the fuck out of my dojo and I love you at the same time I have so much respect for I have so much respect for you no I do I love you I honor you and also you have a lot of skills. And they might not be, you know, Rama said this to us too. I'm teaching you all these intense, intensive powers. And there might be things that you need to know to help other people, and maybe not. Well, guess what? I know who I need to teach. You don't need to bring on fucking crazy shit. I'm like, I need to teach my students block, block, punch, punch, and that will be the powerful thing for your life. You're like, well, I also need to show you that I know something about heavy material like bombs from space. Trump did that. He's like, hey, we created space. The space force. Missiles from space. Get the fuck out of here. So, I'm just trying to be very happy and positive and I love you all very much, but when we come to the advanced teachings, do not fuck with me.

0:20:34
I know. Show me something.

0:20:37
You show me something that's real, I will... I'm not a hierarchical being. I will learn. But if you're just in a bunch of shit karma, fuck you! you guys are fucking limited! I'm way stronger than you! like if this is where it ends at your awareness, fuck you! you guys are fucking limited! I'm way stronger in the power of how to help people and you guys are good and you guys are authentic. You are, but you guys are assholes, both of you. Kamala, you're a fucking asshole. Savitri, you're a fucking asshole. You guys have bad ideas or bad, I don't know, you get mad at me or something? You have some desire attachment complex? I mean we've known each other for a long time and you guys fucked up. I mean fucked up for enlightenment but you guys have some weird ideas about me. Don't have a weird idea about me. Can't you see the 90% of greatness that I do and then you have to say I have 10% weird ideas about tomorrow.

0:22:33
It makes me so upset.

0:22:34
But look at the power that I taught you.

0:22:37
Come on.

0:22:38
Look at it.

0:22:39
Kamala, you fuck up. Savitri, you fuck up.

0:22:44
Fuck up!

0:22:45
Savitri, you fuck up! If you can't do the job, quit. You're a dense student. If you can't do the job, quit. Don't do it.

0:23:02
You help people.

0:23:03
You help people.

0:23:04
Magical ways.

0:23:05
Magical ways. But you know what? If you can't do it while I'm alive, guess what, I can do it. I get a little email, someone's dead, I can do the job. But Kamala, stop this bullshit. No really, what the fuck? This is a very advanced way of mining. Kamala if you can't do it, quit. This is what I told the Unity team. Quit. If you can't do it, you're going to be killing everything. You're going to be killing the people you want to help. You're going to be killing the minorities. So if you can't do it, it's not in your heart. I gave you the opportunity and whatever self reasons that you have, if you're not willing to do it, let it go. Stop it, because you're going to create, you're going to hurt people more. Right, Kamala? Kamala, stop it. Either stop it, or do it. There was a lot of students who were very confused. And some students went to other teachers, and some students did this, and some students did that. I didn't separate from Rama's teachings. I was like, Rama gave me the advanced teachings. Did you get the advanced teachings? Well, but I also drew two. I got a scratch in my head. Maybe I better go to India and try to figure out if there's some enlightenment or some Bhutan. Can't do. Guess what? I went everywhere. I wonder if I could think of going everywhere around the world. And I saw every advanced student that I could. And I saw, whoa, Rama was fucking the real deal. He's bigger, stronger. I saw some people who can go into a little bit of Samadhi. I'm like, man, my guru, guru, went into so much light. Mother fuckers. No, 20 years I've been enlightened. You want to step to this? Come on. Anyone, say a word come to me let's go this is this is a you know command face to face face to face me don't email to email me be real come over I will you You think? Sisters are really beautiful things. I mean in my biggest heart even to Great souls that you all are. You are an imp Buddha's nature, Buddha's nature is in all of you, but I'm the No fucking around, Sunbar. Mm! Mm-mm! Mm-mm-mm-mm! Mm-mm! Fuck you! No. You got a- you got an idea? and yeah, give it, send me that in an email, tell that to your teacher, blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. Fuck you. Look at my eyes. Fuck you. I mean, I love all of you. But come on.

0:28:17
This.

0:28:19
this is help and if you don't be enlightened fuck you I will squash you with my foot and Is this the advanced teaching? Oh, I have more to say.

0:28:47
No, I'm serious. You step up in front of me, in this group, I look at you eye to eye.

0:28:53
The fuck am I going to think?

0:28:57
You enter my dojo.

0:29:00
What am I going to think? Person like you. You!

0:29:07
Individual.

0:29:08
Stand in front of me. I got a lot of black belts. Been in a lot of fights.

0:29:12
Got a lot of strings.

0:29:13
You?

0:29:14
What are you going to do?

0:29:15
With your ideas?

0:29:16
I have a focus on weird things that I thought.

0:29:17
Fuck!

0:29:18
Fuck you. And I'm going to be honest. I'm going to be honest. I'm going to be honest. I'm going to be honest. I'm going to be honest. I'm going to be honest. I'm going to be honest. I'm going to be honest. I'm going to be honest. I'm going to be honest. I'm going to be honest. things that I thought. Fuck! Oh fuck you! And also, what the fuck does that mean? What do you think? What the fuck do you think? I was thinking it too. Fuck you! I just want you to meditate on one thing. You know, I think all sorts of weird things. Stand in front of me. Because...

0:30:07
It's gonna happen.

0:30:09
Stand in front of me with all the weird shit that you think. Stand in front of me. And say... With your thousand, ten thousand thoughts, I will beat the shit out of you with those thoughts. Guaranteed! Or actually, it's exciting for me because I'm a good martial artist. So, do it! All of you. One punch, you're knocked out, you're dead, you're fucking leaked. But I mean I care about you, so I don't hurt you. My punch stops you. My love stops ego. My bodysita stops the reaction of self isn't it and all my students know it is. Vanjian got the big power here you advanced students. Fuck you assholes You're looking at the great master and you're like, who will have the personal opinion? Who will have your fucking personal opinion? See it. Recognize it. Be aware of it. Do you know that when I teach people martial arts, I teach them so that they can save their lives and their world. It's not wrong. I'm not just being a fool. I grew up in the world. I grew up in the world of the world the world. The world of Black Lives Matter. Why does it matter? And I've lived that even to the super cup where I live.

0:33:18
Come on.

0:33:19
I'm not just an idiot.

0:33:20
And guess what?

0:33:21
I could, a cop that pulls me over, I could probably beat the shit out of him. I'm like, it's not that I'm unpowerful, I'm powerful. And I say to the cop, please thank you. I can drop that guy from my car. Wake up. Wake up black people. Wake up. Yeah, no, it's true. I think it's true. We have to be together. The white people, it's hard to work on them. And he says, nods, support, pats, and supports. But what else can he do? He can wake up. All right, so, oh my gosh, I've got so much more to say to you advanced students, but We're gonna move on to,

0:35:16
oh, let's move on to the next teaching, which is an intermediate SEVA teaching.

0:35:26
Good for you.

0:35:27
And also, while I'm gonna say F words, can you stop me? can you stop me? F you, advanced students, F you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
