0:00:00
Hello, advanced students. So today we're going to have a very helpful teaching. So it's really fun for the advanced students, especially for the new advanced students, because you're like, oh my gosh, I'm so excited to learn the advanced study, the things that are going to make me enlightened. And then you showed up to Sunday, and you're like, hmm, what's going to happen to me now? So there's actually a lot of tonal to this teaching. And on Sunday, what you got was the complete second attempt. interesting, trivial pursuit. On Saturday, that was an amazing teaching, very powerful, very focused on what's going on. Now on Sunday, when I came to teach the full sangha, I sat down. Let me just say, Sunday morning, I woke up and I had a very strong seeing that all the ST4s should get this teaching. You guys did a good job. A lot of you came so far up into your yoga ranks, black belt, made so much, the biggest strides, got jobs, all sorts of things. I think the people who didn't have the mark, the rank, the capability, the belt level, before, the personal power, in the last quarter, you did a good job, and you did the right thing. You looked at the coronavirus and all this crazy stuff going on, you said, I might just get sick. This is a crazy world. You were able to see through the illusion and develop yourself, be strong. So you did a good job. And Dakini was your biggest fan.

0:02:53
She asked me many times,

0:02:54
what about the teachings? And I'm like, advanced teachings, and I'm like, no, I have no seeing or interest. The last time I did it was enough. First time I did it, I loved it. And it was great. It was exciting. And I'm like, we have our acquisition. We have Leela who became liberated. And I'm like, hey, the enlightenment dream is happening. And then the second time I'm like, all right, you guys did enough. And I gave you a very I was fast teaching in the Anza Borrego desert, so that's okay. But I told you the right things, and I gave you the right empowerment. And then yesterday, Sunday, in the morning, I was like, I should give the teaching to the rest of the SD4s. And Diego, student of Shannon, great master. He did it. And I'm like, and even in the morning when I woke up and knew that, I was like, this is just too much, Sambara, too much. Like, this is a very powerful solstice. And I'm going to, and for some reason, I'm like, I'm going to give another teaching. I'm going to give an intermediate teaching, and also the Kala Chakra empowerment to my longest standing students, not the new students. And I knew that it was the right thing. And guess what? It was, I had this feeling, it's too much. Guess what it was? Yeah, it was too much.

0:04:52
In a great way.

0:04:53
So, when I came out to teach on Sunday, I told the guys what music I wanted to sit with, and I sat down, and I remember hearing the second song of Samadhi, the Samadhi, Samadhi song. And about 30 or 34 seconds later, I was gone. And I don't have a thought or a recognition of an action or an awareness. Just to tell you the truth. I sat down to give a teaching. I had an intention and then I was gone. So the teaching to the World Wide Sangha, I don't remember a word of it. And then we had a break. And I don't remember the break except for at a moment I came back into my awareness of the physical world, and I was standing in my room, and I was facing a picture of my teacher. And my eyes were wide open, and all of a sudden I came back, and there was so much light and so much love, to a degree that's not possible to explain in words. And then I started to rescind from even that recognition of light and love. And my great I knew we were at a break somehow, but I didn't remember anything that I taught. And then it was gone. And I keep asking people, I'm like, what did I say? What did I teach? What happened? Because I don't know what happened in the first attention. So Sunday was a teaching of the second attention completely. So whatever you saw there Sunday, complete second attention. Now this has been a consideration for me for a long time. As a teacher, when you teach from an enlightened school, you're able to kind of interlock with the essence of the greatest guru of your school. You're able to connect with the highest dimensions and to share them. And that's a natural thing, and that's good. And that's why I teach you to teach. Even when you're teaching introduction meditation, you can sit there and the same enlightenment here comes through you. It's just for the proper level. students and advanced students teach, so much light and power comes to them. There's no hierarchy. There isn't. If you're in a school of enlightenment, like a real school of enlightenment, you're an expression of that And so my students expressed enlightenment. That's where the ST5s came from and the European students came from. So don't be confused. I was 100% second attention. And, you know, I am. I'm going through what I'm going through, but I'm good at what I do. And also, when I'm 100% second attention, then you get to see Sam Laura's enlightened character. character My teacher had an enlightened character. He's great and he was funny and powerful and intense and

0:09:38
then

0:09:39
Sambara's enlightened can characters Funny Or weird but It is It is for sure and a 100% definitely expression of enlightenment in my weird way. In whatever training I've been given and whatever I do, something that's going to be strong and it works for people because I've seen it work. Sometimes I do a little teaching, I'll do a teaching and I might, back with the ST3s and FOLs, I would talk for hours, give a long teaching, discourse, and at certain times I would kind of disappear, and yet I'm talking. And then I'd come back and say, hmm, that seemed to work. But a very unusual thing happened last Sunday. I taught. I had the intention to teach, but in terms of my physical reality, it dissolved and I was all second intention. You saw me saying words. And when you're gone, the first intention and second intention are perfect. So I said things that made sense, I hope. And if it I'm like a Zen master giving a poem. So everything that I said was in perfect balance and a great truth. And that's why it was so high and so bright. Now when I was teaching the advanced teachings, so I gave the first teaching. I don't remember a word I taught. And then we went to the intermediate teaching and people tell me, yeah, you were like all more in-touch. And also making less sense. I'm like, oh, okay. And then the third one was the advanced teaching and I was even asking today, I was asking Atala, I was like, did we take a break? I mean, like, what did I do? Did you just see me just standing around? Because I, from the moment of the first, after 35 seconds of the first meditation on Sunday, I was gone. And this is very good for you to see, because I was gone. I was completely, You saw me say some things and also my my enlightened nature is to be a big goofball and so To seem to see me say funny things or to be weird Or to give you special mudras That must be that someone told me but I'm like that's not out of my character My highest teachings have been mudras. But for you to see that, it's good. And for me to be that, is who I am. Now, a lot of my older students, ST5s, don't know this. I used to be a little bit difficult. And I used to, I used to really, even when I was, I was very wrathful, a very wrathful teacher. I really appreciated that Rama taught us this way. And so I was really intense to my students, like, you're going to survive. And I'm very polite to the ST5s. That's what they need. I'm starting to see it, pretty goofy and silly and also intense. You know, I have a lot of black belts and I also do silly things. So some of the things that people told me that I did, and I'm like, yeah, I've done that before, the Hungarian Sangha. I have no memory of any teaching on Sunday. I was gone. So that's my second attention. And I have a feeling that it got bigger and bigger and stronger and stronger. So those of you who are the advanced students to get the College Offered Empowerment, which is the first and most powerful step in the advanced teachings, I gave you a very direct second attention teaching. The spirit of it was tremendous. It was for real and real. It was the greatest and the greatest and the truest of the truest. And it was direct. Now, it's kind of funny because it's very second attention, I would say. So today, we're going to start to have a focus on you got the transmission, and you got it, even over Zoom, you got it bigger than anyone else. And the one, well, except for maybe the people in the Dharma Villa, people in the Dharma Villa were like, oh my God, we're here, it's so bright, it's the brightest of the bright. And they've been there. This is like, you know, something they're used to, they've seen it before. But, Noah, trust me, I'm a great yogi and one of my great yogic abilities is delivering dharma, pound by pound, over Zoom. It's true. It's something that I have So, this teaching, it was a teaching of Nirvana, with strange Sambara saying it. But no, no. Like it's a great thing. It's a funny thing to me too. Sunday, I don't remember teaching a teaching or saying a word. And afterwards, people told me, you said all these things. I'm not going to apologize. You did some pretty weird stuff, especially to the young students, and they're all good. Because that's how I feel in my heart. This is what my teacher did to me on his first meetings. I'm like, all right. But I have great insight and great secrets for enlightenment. I met with the SJ3s yesterday yesterday and I sat with them. We meditated.

0:18:21
I saw their liberation,

0:18:22
even though they didn't.

0:18:23
And I was like, well, maybe they didn't. But I was like, you guys, you know what? Let's actually do this and do it faster. Because if every being and all of you advanced students,

0:18:40
if everything is Buddha nature,

0:18:43
then why fight it? And why doubt it? And why is it the hardest thing in the universe when it's the most natural thing for your being? I know it seems weird, but it ain't that hard. And I want to show you guys that. Okay, so in my teaching Sunday, especially for the advanced students, it was smoking ladder. It was, you go on a ladder to get higher than something. This is a Zen, Zen koan too. What happens when you can climb up the pole and have all the balance to get to the top? And you get on top and then shatter. Get higher than a ladder. You go up to the top and at the top you gotta jump off. And then when you find yourself jumping off, maybe you're at the top of the next ladder. Coughlin made it up, not me, but he was right. We try to get somewhere and that ain't it. I mean, there's a lot of work to get up. That's not it. Once you're enlightened, then there's the funny part.

0:20:46
Am I enlightened?

0:20:49
What's the enlightenment? Well guess what? Follow this path. These teachings are good. And you do feel exhilarated, but then you have to come around me because self-exhilaration and self-liberation is the beginning. And our teacher taught us at least three levels of liberation. So let me just give you a martial arts example. If you figured out somehow on your own to be a black belt in karate or taekwondo or judo or something. I figure it out. I'm really a black belt. And then you come over to me. I will be friends with you. I will win. Because I've been a black belt longer, and I have many more black belts. I follow the structures of the teachings of martial arts. It's great that you figured out how to do a roundhouse kick. Well, great, and even if you're good at it, I'm at a level that's good with good, a higher power in martial arts. You can test me if you want. I like sparring. So there's a level of development that gets you to the right place. You don't own it. You're not the best. But it's real once you get there. But there's also a higher way, a bigger awareness, a greater— just a greater enlightenment. My teacher used to always say, Roma, enlightenment never ends. And every time that he said that, he was checking himself. He was like, he was like, I've experienced the highest nirvanas in the highest state of mind, in the most ecstatic, in the most powerful. He had these amazing powers and ecstasies that are just like great, powerful experiences. And then he's like, even that he lets go and he would find a higher enlightenment and selflessness. So I want you to be enlightened. some borrowed techniques from my own intuition,

0:24:23
my insight,

0:24:24
that will help you to be enlightened, at least the primary enlightenment. But it's surreal,

0:24:36
and I'm just excited about it

0:24:38
to share it with you. But you have to be extremely strong and impeccable in the Kala Chakra technique. The Kala Chakra technique is the foundation of our teachings and you have to be impeccable

0:25:06
at it.

0:25:07
I can help in lots of ways and it itself is the way. So, the last time we were together, I was very strong in second attention. And the empowerment that I gave was very second attention. It's very important and if you don't do it, it doesn't happen. And also, I'm going to yield the floor to Parvati. She's going to talk about the first attention, but it's not just the first attention. When she's teaching this, she's teaching first attention and second attention, because she has both teachings. It's not what I say, because look what I said last time is weird. What she's going to teach is what you need to do. And I could teach it too, but at this moment I think her body will teach it better, clearer and more focus-free. She's a successful yogi. She was the CTO of a successful company. She's what brought the first advanced teachings, and for her to give you these teachings is beyond me. Because I'm going to start being kind of weird for you guys. I'm going to be a bit of a koan, and Parvati will be able to tell you, direct the truth, what to do to be enlightened. And then if you come to me and say,

0:27:13
what do you think of that? I'll be like, oh, well, two years ago,

0:27:18
maybe I thought something that made sense.

0:27:22
And now I don't.

0:27:23
Sambara might not make any sense anymore.

0:27:25
I might be a big koan. But if you could take my advanced students and learn the lessons from them, you can be enlightened. This is probably the direction I'd like to go, because I'm going so high. To a place where maybe Rama was cool hanging out there, I'm respectful of his technique,

0:28:10
and I'll do what I can do for you.

0:28:13
But the advanced teaching right now that is meaningful, that needs to happen, It's going to be from...not me. I mean, I have to do it, maybe I can do it, but I don't want to do it. And guess what I have? Parvati, who's the CTO of a super successful yogic company that makes millions of dollars. Okay.

0:28:53
Yeah.

0:28:54
That's when you need to learn from me. I just don't take a nap. I'm going to be here. I'm engaged. Don't get me wrong, but Pravatki is the proper teaching for new advanced students and older advanced students. And also for me, I am totally open. Like I'm like, you know, yeah I can do what I can do, but also fresh new things, things that have energy. This And this is for me an advanced teaching. Something that I learned from. Not a big deal. I'm not trying to say it for anything. Just do what you're doing. Dun, da, da, dun, dun, dun, dun.

0:30:25
Hello everyone. So we're going to begin with a one song meditation. And if you know the technique well, you can practice that. Otherwise, you can focus on your heart or, you know,

0:30:43
Thank you. the the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so the the the so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the you So, today we're going to review the Kala Chakra meditation considerations and the specific technique. So there are three considerations that were reviewed on Sunday and we're going to re-review them.

0:33:46
The first is that you need to know that you can become liberated. You have to believe in your enlightenment. You have Buddha nature.

0:36:09
The second consideration is to not let anything

0:36:12
get in your way and to not settle for anything less than liberation. This is a really important consideration, and it's one that is probably gonna have to be practiced as mindfulness, because things will come up all the time. It's really important to not become complacent or satisfied, let's say if you've achieved certain high states of mind, and it's also important not to get distracted by desires or aversions or things that don't go your way. Everything that can will get in your way. And that's just how it is. And so that's why this consideration is so important. If you want enlightenment more than anything else, you will have it.

0:37:16
Something that Sambara shared with us on this consideration,

0:37:20
last solstice, was that if you let something get in your way and stop you from progressing, you will be trapped in that karma in a worse way than if you came across that karma without the advanced teachings. And that has to do with how much empowerment that you have and how much energy you have as an advanced practitioner. So you have to be really careful. This is walking the razor's edge with the advanced teachings. So be careful what you get distracted by and if you find that you're indulging in something, just remember this consideration to not let anything get in your way of liberation. And the third consideration is to practice the Kala Chakra meditation technique. So we practice this technique twice a day. It's an ancient Kriya technique that generates a lot of upward energy and as you practice it over time the energy will move from your third eye to your crown chakra. So in the evening. And once you've mastered the technique, you can practice for 30 minutes in the morning and 15 minutes in the evening. This technique, moving forward, replaces the three chakra, the navel heart third eye technique that you've been practicing in the beginning and intermediate stages. So during satsangs and even while you're teaching new students like in an intro or beginning class, use this technique instead of the regular chakra technique.

0:39:29
So these are the three considerations.

0:39:32
Know that you can become enlightened. Don't let anything stop you and practice the technique. So now we're going to talk about the details of the meditation technique. There are five points of focus and we're going to break them down and also practice together. So we'll take it step by step. So the first point of focus is the chakra. So we start at the heart and then we move to the throat and then we move to the third eye. As you focus on the chakra, you're also going to say a mantra for each chakra. So for the heart it's AH, for the throat it's HUM, for the third eye, it's Aum. Additionally, while you are focusing on the chakra and saying the mantra, you're going to visualize a color associated to each, or specific to each of these chakras. So for the heart, you're gonna focus on a very specific light blue color. For the throat, it's going to be a light forest green. And for the third eye, it's going to be a bright white. The fourth aspect, in addition to focusing on the chakra, saying the mantra and the color, is visualizing the seed syllable character of that mantra in the chakra, or just visualizing it in front of you. So I will show you shortly a visual of each of the seed syllable characters. And you can use the Tibetan or Indian version of the characters. Tibetan was recommended by Rama, but either works per Sambara. And the fifth and final element is the speed of the chakra changes. So when we move from chakra to chakra, there has to be a certain pace and it has to be fast enough to generate enough energy for the kundalini to flow consistently and that's what's going to make the technique successful. If you're not cycling through the chakras fast enough, the energy will stagnate and it will be harder for it to build up and then eventually move upwards. So I'm going to share my screen and we're going to walk through these one by one and then we'll do this together, so I'd like you to follow along. So start by focusing on the heart and say ah out loud, and you can visualize or look at this color, this light blue, and this is the seed syllable that represents ah. Next, bring the focus to the throat chakra and say hum. And this is the light forest green color associated with this particular chakra in this technique. And this is the seed syllable.

0:43:09
Now bring your focus to the third eye and say,

0:43:14
OM, and you'll visualize this bright white color. And this is the seed syllable for OM. So we start with the heart, we move to the throat, and we move to the third eye, and then we go back to the heart, throat, third eye. So ah, hum, om, ah, hum, om.

0:43:48
So now we're going to meditate together for five minutes.

0:43:53
And this is an animated visual of this practice, which is very helpful in the beginning while you're learning to visualize the characters and the colors. So the starting point is blue. This is ah, hum, om. Ah, hum, om. If it helps you, you can say this mantra also out loud during this meditation. Please make sure you're on mute. And I'm going to set a timer right now for five minutes. And let's begin.

0:44:35
you you you you you you you you you you you Okay. So this animation was a little bit slower than your target speed, but it's a good one to start with. and we have, the advanced students have a version that's even a little bit slower, which can be easier to start with. There's a couple of additional things I would like to share about the technique won't work because your

0:50:32
kundalini and energy flow when your, you know, spine and your shishamna are straight. So make sure that when you're meditating, you're sitting really upright and that you can feel the energy flowing. If you're slouched or your head is turned to one side a little bit, the technique may not work. And so it's a good idea to get a mirror and use it to check on your posture during meditation. are very specific. So the colors that we were just looking at, these are confirmed with Samara, and these are very specific to certain dimensions. And they're not just plain colors. The blue, the green, and the white, they're actually composed of many different dimensions. And then the name of the color that we call it light blue is just kind of an access point into that field of dimensions. So what you may find as you continue with this meditation practice is you may start start seeing a little bit more into the colors than just a plain, you know, light blue. It will become more dimensional over time. The seed syllable characters, it's important to memorize them. So you can do this either by looking at them repeatedly, or you can also draw them repeatedly, But it's important at a certain point to be able to memorize the five parts of the technique and be able to do those, have those in your mind and visualize them correctly with your eyes closed.

0:52:39
that we covered in the beginning, well, the first two,

0:52:44
before each meditation as a reminder. So you believe in your enlightenment, don't let anything stop you, and then practice the technique. Music. So as you're starting to memorize the different aspects of the technique and learning how to do it, it can take a little time. It's recommended to not meditate to music, but rather sit in silence. And if you want to, once you have a really good handle on the technique, you can listen to music. It's recommended that you listen to, there's six albums by Zazen that have the highest and cleanest dimensions, which are Enlightenment, Canyons of Light, Samadhi, Cayman Blue, Breathless, and Samurai. So if you want to eventually listen to music, these are the albums that are recommended. And I have done a little bit of experimentation on my own, and I can definitely vouch for these albums specifically for this technique. They will get you higher faster. Along with the considerations and the meditation technique there's also a reading list of specific books that help you understand the first attention teachings that help you fully represent the lineage's teachings. So these are specific books that are only for advanced students and these are available on the advanced student site. And one more point, inaccessibility. So, as advanced students, this is where things tend to get super interesting, meaning that everyone starts to have very unique individual experiences, and it's because everyone is really going through their own special flavor of karma. So it's not recommended to share your meditation experiences with other people, other advanced students. It may be very difficult for others to to relate to you or appreciate your understandings, your seeings, your state of awareness. And also you're going through tremendous personal transformation and so being inaccessible also helps you conserve energy that you need for this advance adventure.

0:56:05
So we covered a lot today, the three considerations.

0:56:08
You know, believe in your enlightenment. Tell that to yourself every day. Don't stop for anything and practice the advanced technique. And we also covered the five aspects of the meditation technique. So the chakra, the color, the mantra, the seed syllable, and the speed. And as Sambara has said, this is a very powerful technique and this technique alone can take you to liberation. So there are resources like the animated visual that I showed you and the books. These are available on the advanced student site which you have access to and If you have questions, you can post them on the advanced students slack channel So, thank you all very much.

0:57:32
So thank you, that was very beautiful. And that was perfect. So do that.

0:57:40
And then don't do that.

0:57:42
So

0:57:43
be well. That's very beautiful. That's perfect. These are the things that you need to have to work on. These are the right points of attention that unlock the door to liberation. And it takes some work, some discipline, but points of attention that unlock the door to liberation. And it takes some work, some discipline, but it's the perfect discipline. So, thank you all so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
