0:00:00
Hello. Welcome. Alright, so we're going to begin with one palm meditation on the heart. Sit up nice and straight.

0:00:15
And let's begin.

0:00:17
So

0:00:27
the the the the the the the the the the the you the the the the the the the the so Thank you. Alright, so today we're talking about teaching. is self-mastery. Self-mastery of the spiritual essence. If you have self-mastery, you have something to teach. If you've read a book and you have some concepts, you can teach teach that too. But we focus on primarily the foundation, the root of teaching, is that we have self-mastery, we take very, very seriously our spiritual study. And then when we have So Buddha, he said, he said, before you go out and try to help, I'm paraphrasing, before y'all go out and try to help everybody and try to save everybody and try to teach everybody, make sure you do one thing first. Master your mind. Free your mind. that, then you'll be of great help and assistance.

0:04:27
And my teacher always used to say, before you go out and try and help someone, make sure they see it as help.

0:04:34
This is really funny.

0:04:35
A lot of people try to help people.

0:04:39
Get over here! I'm going to help you! The first step is self-mastery. And then once you have self-mastery, once you are established in the way, then you are a proper vessel for sharing the way. And this is what Buddha taught many times. He would teach teachings. He'd say, here's what you need to learn. And he would teach teachings, the Dharma. And then he would say, at the end, and share the way. Share the way. Learn the Dharma and share the way. It's a beautiful thing. So teaching is beautiful. Teaching is a wonderful thing. It's a great magic to share in a part light and wisdom of life, to share truth with others. It's beautiful. And there's two powerful benefits. When you share the light, when you are sharing the light, you are the doorway to the light. And when you're the doorway to the light, you get a whole bunch of light on you. Yeah, actually, light comes through you if you're a teacher. So that's a really good thing. And then the other thing is this, another thing about all arts and crafts. When you teach, you get better. So when you're trying to teach something, trying to start and describe and figure it out in part to another, you get much stronger. I learned this in martial arts. I was doing Kung Fu for a couple years, and then some new student comes in and my teacher says, go teach this new student basic exercise number one. And I went over and I was like, oh. And then when you teach, your mind expands and it encompasses a greater awareness. Because the other person has a different intention. This is selflessness. And there's great wisdom and power that comes from your practice of selflessness. So when you try to teach someone something, you start to learn much more. This is a wonderful thing. Teaching. When we teach spirituality, we experience more spirit. So the benefits of spirituality are wonderful. Now, not everybody teaches. Like someone might study, learn, have accomplishment, attainment, and be personally happy, bright, and enlightened, but they don't teach. Because teaching is that. Next level. To teach is a powerful and beautiful thing. You don't have to do it, it's a higher kind of power. It's kind of like in martial arts. If you look at a bunch of karate dojos, you know, let's say SKA, Shodokan Karate of America, there's a lot of dojos around the country. And there's a lot of black belts. But there's only some that teach. A very small percentage of the black belts end up being censors. And why? Why do you become a teacher? I don't know. Many reasons. But to become a teacher, you're not just a regular black belt.

0:11:12
You might get a black belt and say, I want to be a teacher now.

0:11:14
And you might teach a little, but if you're going to become a teacher, then that means that you're going to get much better in the art. You're going to teach and become better. You're going to push yourself harder to become better. You're going to not just get a black belt, but maybe a third degree black belt, because that's the level of mastery you find yourself needing to teach. And then you're going to work your way up from there to teach more. And that is a completely selfless act, unless you're selfish. But generally, because you want to teach, you push yourself harder, and then you're more selfless because you're pushing yourself harder to be more powerful, to help others, to share with others, to share the light. Now, I became a teacher out of gratitude. So, I was very grateful for my teacher. My teacher, Ram Rinpoche, he taught me these amazing things. And my life became this amazing adventure of enlightenment, empowerment, job yoga, yoga, all sorts of wonderful things that we do. And all of the things I've worked on, I've developed myself and found many dimensions of wonder and experiencing. And I think it's great. I think it's the most wonderful thing that's ever happened to me in my life. And so because I'm grateful for the opportunity that I was given, then I just feel that I want to pay it forward. It just is because of my gratitude to my teacher, because he shared with me something so wonderful for me that I feel like sharing it with others. But I know, you know, there's, I know other enlightened students of his who don't teach. They're so happy by It's a whole bunch of work. It's like Joe and the, Joe versus Volcano. It's like, remember he's in the limousine, and the guy says, where do you want to shop? He's like, I don't know, where would you shop? And he says, if you don't know what, you know, like what clothes to wear, that's telling me you don't know who you are. I've lived my whole life trying to figure out who I am and I've figured it out and now I'm tired. I don't want to listen or, you know, like work on something else. So, some people are happy to attain liberation and want to share with others, which is also very good. When I was reading the Gratitude, Compassion assignments, I was very happy to read some of the students of Shannon. a contemporary of mine, a student of my teacher, and he became enlightened and he taught students. And then he taught them for as long as he could. And then he said, okay, now maybe you guys should go teach. And some of them are hanging out with us and doing yoga with us and everything. Their assignments are so beautiful because they were these powerful awarenesses of gratitude. When you have gratitude for something great that someone's done for you, it kind of makes you want to feel like maybe I should do that for others too. And that's what Shannon taught them. Like, hey, maybe share this. So gratitude is a really wonderful foundation for teaching because it's very selfless and it's very open. It's like I've been given something and that's why I want to share it. So, some of you think, isn't perfect enough. My, you know one lesson in spirit, if you've taken to heart something in any of the dharma talks, in any of the teachings, then you know something you can share. Then you can share the way. If you know something that helped you a little bit, maybe it'll help someone else a little bit. So, it's fine. Even a beginner in their first class can learn something that they can teach. They can share the way. I remember once, I was a teenager standing on the corner waiting for a bus at a very crowded place. And it was a long wait for the bus for some reason. And there was this guy on the corner with a Bible in his hand preaching. And we see this a lot in America. Some guy on the corner going, and the devil and God and the devil, things like that. So I just tuned him out and didn't listen to him. I was sitting there waiting for the bus. And then I started listening to him because there was kind of nothing else going on but traffic. And he kept saying the same like verse and teaching over and over. It was like a one and a half minute teaching, something that he learned, something that he quoted from the Bible and some little, you know, conclusion. And he kept doing it over and over. He did, because people were just walking by. So I'm like, no, that actually makes sense. No one stopped to listen, but he just kept doing it. And I was like, hmm. And I looked at him, and it was something to him. What he was saying was a truth to him, something that he learned from church. And he was sharing it with the world. No one listened except for me, probably. And I didn't find it to be anything amazing, but then I looked at him, and to him, it was bright. To him, it was something where, you know, it touched him. It probably is like, I think for him, it was probably something that kept him off of, you know, being a drunk. So something that kind of changed his life. So that's why there was some power in it, because it meant something to him. So I was like, oh, he knew a minute and a half of something that meant something to him, and he was able to share it. So, and that comes to teaching in the Kali Yuga. The Kali Yuga is this weird time where it's hard to see the light.

0:20:35
It's hard to see the light.

0:20:36
So then we have to be very, very strong in our methods because a very very highly spiritual person could walk out to people and share the highest Dharma and People can't see it at all although mmm-hmm Whatever that doesn't mean anything So that's why we have to come to higher discipline, attention, focus.

0:21:09
We call it skillful means.

0:21:12
The way of teaching so that people who are stuck in maya can benefit from it. or when I teach students to teach, I like them to be at the intermediate level. The intermediate level is a very strong level of practice. This means that you meditate every day.

0:21:42
You practice mindfulness.

0:21:44
You've done the enlightenment workbook, you practice bodhicitta as your mindfulness. Being an intermediate student, as being a Buddhist monk or an initiated yogi, very focused, your life is about making other people's lives better, about enlightenment for yourself. So, an intermediate student is a committed student. Once you're committed in your heart, it's like you want to be happy, you want to be free. and you do things like job yoga, and you listen and practice the teachings of compassion. When this is your life, then you're an intermediate student. Whether you've had the transmissions of Buddhist monk or yogi, the moment you have that commitment, you have that initiation. So, when you're an intermediate student, this is the performance requirement that I like. That's why I have a lot of structures that I work with you on for teaching.

0:23:37
But even beginners, you got that one lesson

0:23:40
that you've got, or two or three, and you can share that with the world. It's true.

0:23:49
You can share it.

0:23:50
And in that one lesson that you've got, you can share that with someone, and it could be a profound, life-changing experience. Because one lesson from your first meditation class that maybe sparked something in you could spark something in someone else because these are lessons of truth. Lessons of the Buddha Dharma, the enlightened truth. So an intermediate student student is someone who is capable of doing what we call, I'm going to call it Darshan. Darshan is the meeting with an enlightened teacher. It is Darshan. So you come and you when you meet people for the first time and teach them meditation. That's the intro class. And then the intermediate students are also able to do the beginning classes. After the intro, then you do the beginning stages, which takes at least 48 days. And it has yoga. And a lot of these are things that if you're an intermediate student, you have the empowerment to teach this. So when you think, I don't know, I'm not so good at this. I've been in the Enlightenment workbook too and I was like all iffy iffy. That was a long time ago. But my teacher said, there's two types of spiritual teachers that are worthwhile. And he said, if you have an enlightened teacher, it's worthwhile. So when you have this training, this transmission, even if you're a beginner or intermediate or intermediates to them. When you share what you know with someone, they're receiving direct truth. You become a conduit to the light. And in talking to you, if you're authentic, if you're just sharing what you know, with no self, no self-aggrandizing, just sharing what you know, they can feel enlightenment from you. And in the intermediate stage, it's you connecting to me. So they'll feel my light coming through. In the advanced stage, then you direct. See we develop things and structures here, and it's good. And so, even if you think you're, you know, in the intermediate study, it's very, very intense. There's a lot of clashing with self. And you're like, how can I teach? You can teach. You're not just the beginner guy on the corner saying his truth. You have many teachings, intermediate students, many teachings. And as long as you just get up and teach yourself out of the way, just do it, you're able to share life. A life that is not of you is life. So, when you teach, it's very powerful. Have no doubt. Don't doubt. And really let the light come through you. It's a very natural thing. That's why we have a very simple way of going through things. It's a very simple way. You're an intermediate teacher and you're able to teach an introduction class. You're able to walk someone through the Enlightenment workbook, get them established in technology, yoga, and the other things that we do. That's what structure. This is a practice of structure. And in introduction and intermediate teachings, when you sit down with someone, you don't just like mix stuff up. We have a very, we have a very like well-developed structure for this. And this isn't a, I'll call it a class outline, and we'll send it to all of you. And it is how to meet people for the first time and share with them the Dharma. And the class outline is very simple. It's kind of like you introduce yourself. You're all, hey, my name is Joe, and I'm gonna teach like this today and back today. Meditation and mindfulness. And then say, oh, okay, Joe, and I know what we're going to do. And then you go, okay, so first, we're going to just like realize,

0:30:39
and then we're going to focus.

0:30:41
And I'm going to tell you about what a chakra is. Oh, and then we're going to do a little meditation. And then we're going to talk a little bit more. And then in every class, there's a little bit more. And the little bit more is a Dharma talk. And it's a prescribed Dharma talk. So it's like, oh, I could talk about karma, I could talk about right livelihood, different things, very, very substantial, important things for beginners. And then that's where you have your creativity, your personal stories, your way of looking at things, your way of sharing in the five minutes of the Dharma talk. So you might have a one hour class and in that you're like, okay, well I have to introduce myself, I have to talk about the chakras and the aura and what meditation is, and then we meditate, and then after we meditate, have a set of you, and then I'm going to give a little dharma talk, and then we're going to talk a little more and have a very, very, very, very, very structured thing. Because if you just come to every meditation class and you just start saying whatever you feel like, it's not going to be structured. So there's certain things, there's a second attention structure, a spiritual structure behind this. So in the intro and beginning classes, it's very, very structured. You follow the structure and it works. There's power in it. If you deviate, you go into stuff. We want to really keep it simple. So our introduction and beginning class structures are very simple, but they're very powerful. Now, if you've ever been to a karate dojo, they tend to just do lots of basics. You're all, hmm, hmm, hmm. You're punching a lot and why am I sitting here for just doing Oh Zookies forever you're just punching punching punching it's like I get it it's a lot of simple structures. I know it's not fancy, but it's powerful. And when you teach people, they will feel that power. Because if you're all over the place, you're like, oh, let me tell you about spiritual highs and spiritual this and spiritual that. People won't feel power. You might feel power, they won't. So this is why I get down to simple structures. So you guys will all be able to get our class outline. Study it. And if you're teaching, use it. And if you use it, it's powerful. And it's something that you've trained in yourself. So we must not be too out there. We have to be very grounded, especially in this age. People cannot see light and power and truth. This is the age of fake news, where people don't know what's true. What people are telling them, they don't know what's true. So we have to be very solid in what we teach, very simple, very formed, so that people can start to see truth for themselves in their life. And once they start to awaken to truth, then they say, oh yeah, okay, this is good. But it takes time. So we have to be very, very focused. Very, very structured. And keep it simple. Like our class is always the same way, the same message. And then there's this five minutes of talking about a prescribed Dharma talk in your authentic way. But definitely cover all the other bases. Now, when you're teaching and you have the teaching structures, then it's very important where you are coming from. It's the most important. So, it always starts off with the self-wanting, desiring. What is the self? Why do you want to spend an extra energy and time doing something? Where are you coming from? Are you, like, here's the wonderful thing about me. I come from gratitude. But you have to ask yourself, where are you coming from? If you're coming from, I wanna look cool,

0:36:57
I want position over people,

0:36:59
I want people to regard me, or I just want people sitting there looking at me and giving me attention, giving me energy, vampire, then you're an asshole. Then you need to do a deep search. Now I'm talking to you, who you are, because I know. No, a lot of you are good, but I'm talking to you. It's a problem that some people have, others don't. I never had that problem. Because I came from truth. And I came from gratitude. And where are you coming from?

0:37:50
Wake up.

0:37:51
Because you know what? That ain't enlightenment. That ain't going to work. See, I have to correct some people. That's an asshole. Someone who just wants, I want to be regarded as positional above. Right? Stop that. If that's in your heart anywhere, garbage. My students who teach are very successful because they don't have that at all because I've taught them properly. And if you have that in you, then just don't teach. Don't be a jerk. Don't mess things up. That creates bad karma. You actually have lots of past lives of bad karma. Don't do that. Learn your lesson. Look at the people who teach here. They teach clean. So don't be a teacher if you're going to be a jerk. That's actually bad. That creates horrible karma that stops your enlightenment even though you like what you get out of it. Attention and position. It's funny. You know the Dalai Lama? I'm gonna say this because I don't have my two Buddhist monks. Two Tibetan Buddhist monks. They're not on this. It's funny because the two, they are? Okay, I'm gonna say it anyway. All right. I respect them a lot, but Tibetan Buddhism went sideways. It did. Why do you guys have the bad karma for whatever's happening for Tibetan Buddhism right now? Anyways, so I'll say this about the Dalai Lama, because I have the seeing. I have a and so on, they know way more about Bodhicitta than I do. In their gratitude assignments, they had powerful, beautiful teachings in Tibetan Buddhism. And I was like, wow. I was like, I'm so glad they shared that with me. I was like, they know more than me. But, fuck that. Cause I'm true, I'm the truth. They might know more, but I'm legit. Okay. The Dalai Lama is a fanboy. This means that, and he himself says he's not enlightened, which he isn't. He's like at an intermediate level of practice. So he's a good teacher. But the Dalai Lama was someone who knew the Dalai Lama, who looked at Dalai Lama's bell, Dalai Lama's beads, everything, so much, he loved everything. The last Dalai Lama has moved on, didn't reincarnate. But this fanboy did. He knew him, and he had great devotion to him. But he's definitely not enlightened. But as a young child, maybe he was able to talk to me. They were like, what beads would you like? These ones or these ones? And he thought, these ones. Because he's like, I knew it! I've got to challenge everybody.

0:41:53
So teaching has to be real. I mean, that's what it got like in Tibet.

0:42:01
It got too many structures. When it was alive, it was flowing.

0:42:20
And now, it's dead.

0:42:26
I look at the highest level of education. They're like PhDs in Buddhism. They are. They both have PhDs from Buddhist universities. Their whole lives they spent as Buddhist monks. Oh, since they're not here I'm gonna give it to them. Oh wait, since they're here I'm gonna give it to them more. It's true. They live in Bodywoods. They're in America. They're learning computer programming. That tells me they're alive. Because most of their comrades are dead. Dead in spirit. foreign, asleep. See my smile? So this is where we come into the advanced Buddhist teaching. I'm a renegade. You know, whatever. I can tell you the truth. I know it's an uncomfortable truth. Tibetan Buddhists don't like to give uncomfortable truths.

0:44:12
To the public. But to each other?

0:44:14
Yeah! That's why I'm here. So I'm just being honest. So, we have to give our students a very structured path. We can't get too wishy-washy. So we have a very simple way, very structured. We say, hey, this is the structure of the school. This is how you develop yourself. This is what we do in a class, a very simple thing. And then we move forward. And you have to teach in a selfless way. Very selfless. You know, so I was a prim-bhishan in a past life. I was a Zen master and I spent years teaching introduction and beginning meditation. I didn't fix... I had past life awareness. I didn't fix the other things that I knew. I just did my best. Working the system that I learned. I remember I was at a place, a dojo where I got a black belt in taekwondo and there was this one guy there and whenever the teacher taught, he taught us, you know, taekwondo, which is a lot of kicking. And then there's this one guy who had a black belt in Aikido, which is a lot of wrist locks and throws. And this Aikido guy, when we were, he was like, when someone punches, you have to kick them in the head. I'm like, okay, practice that. And then when we would have our little, like one-on-ones or groups, when the sensei, when the teacher walked away, he would be like, well, in Aikido we do this when someone punches. And I'm like, we're in Taekwondo Dojo. But he kept on talking about Aikido all the time. He was a black belt in Aikido. But he couldn't really do the Taekwondo as well as most people because he was all confused. He was like, I know so much from Aikido. I'm like, go back to Aikido, you're going to get kicked in the head. Which did happen. It was really funny. So remember when you're teaching, you're teaching a certain style, like a martial art style. So like the Tibetan Buddhists have a style. And Zen Buddhism has a style. And as weird American Buddhists, we have a style. It's American style. Anything goes. Take a little from here, a little from there.

0:48:04
There's this thing called reincarnation.

0:48:06
I guess, you know, I mean, okay, let's talk about the Tibetan one. The Tibetans, at this one point, got this influence from India. And these beautiful teachings of Dharma and the Buddha came. But then they were like, no, no, no, no. And then Guru Rinpoche, Padmasambhava was born, popped out of a lotus in the lake came over and he said no Buddhism is good. And I went okay we can accept it now. Another time I remember, I remember we were in China and that's where Zen Buddhism was. the Zen masters from China started to appear in Japan. They would reincarnate in Japan. Why? There was a power in Japan. And so masters started to go there for teachings or be aware of their teachings over there. And then they started to reincarnate there. And there was a big, there was a period of time where many enlightened masters from China incarnated in Japan. It was a very powerful time for Zen and Shingon Buddhism in Japan. And it was a shift. So Buddhism and spirituality shifts and they go to different places where there's different energies. And so, America in the West, there's power in America. Why do so many spiritual teachers come here to teach? And guess what? Some incarnate here. It's a place of growth, a place of power. And it's in its own special way. Just like Zen in Japan became something very different than Zen in China. Although they share some of the same stories, it was very different. When you switch to a different culture, things change. Buddhism from India to Tibet changed. It depends on the Tibetans had a very, very strong culture, very strong spiritual beliefs. And it was Padmasambhava's insight where he can marry those things together became the alchemy, the power that Tibetan Buddhism is today. It's amazing. And yet we find ourselves here in America, learning to be Buddhist. But we have to be authentic. Whether you're a Buddhist from India, or one that ended up in Tibet or one that ended up in China or Japan or San Francisco or Hungary, France, Iceland. You have to be authentic. And that means to express the truth, the truth of the teachings. That's what teaching is, is to be real and to share what is real with others. So it's amazing. Now once you are authentic in your teachings, once you are true to the structures and the style of the teaching, then it gets down to a lot of turn out. It starts with your audience. Who are you trying to teach? So, you have to say, I want to teach, and now who am I going to teach? It's a first thing. And you have to really kind of get a sense and a feeling, and maybe it's like you look around and you say, I want to teach these people in my community. This is a very traditional thing. I look at the people, I see them, I want to help the people in my community. Sometimes you wanna help a very specific group, which is okay too. But you wanna be very clear on who you want to help.

0:53:21
Because if you're unclear on who you wanna help,

0:53:23
then it won't work out so well.

0:53:26
The most important thing in our school

0:53:29
is that you have to help mystics. Because we're a school of mysticism. A very big part of our school is magic. Like mystical things, magical things, dreams, and powers in the desert, and seeing energy, connecting to light. This is a school of mysticism. And if you meet, like most people, they won't have any interest in it. They won't see it, they don't get it, it doesn't do anything for them. So when you teach in this school, in this style, you have to teach mystics. Now a mystic is not someone who has learned anything from a book, had some belief or idea, and that's why they're a mystic. Mystics are born, they're not developed. A mystic is born with a mind that is open to the miraculous. There's so many people who are not. They don't sense energy, they don't believe in enlightenment and magic and they have no connection to it. And that's what we call a muggle. And muggles are great. They're great. They just don't process information that a mystic processes. So, when we teach, we need to orient our teaching to mystics. people of like mind who are excited about spirit and light and power the way that we are. And if they see it, if they're there and they see it, they go, wow! And it wakes them up and puts them on the path. But you don't teach to everybody in the room, because if you're teaching, a bunch of muggles might show up and we're not going to teach muggles if they learn something great but they'll probably learn just concepts but they might be good concepts and help them but we're there to teach people who are going to be warriors on the pathway to enlightenment It's the long game. So, yeah, as Chittadanda says, it's not a sprint, it's a marathon. He said that to, he told me he said that to one of his students. I'm like, that's true. Yeah. I like sprinting. It's a fast path, but it is a lot of sprinting. 26 miles of it. It's the long game. So, we have to know who we are focusing on to teach. And we're looking mostly for mystics, people of like mind. I mean, like, we don't want to hang around people who don't like us and who would rather talk about rap music and politics. Right. Like, if that started to be the conversation of our spiritual group, I'd be like, something needs to change. Right. No, we want we want to be able to say, we have a teaching of compassion, of meditation, of spirit, and a real one where people develop themselves, where people transform and change. And if people resonate with that, they are people of like mind. That's who we want to talk to most Walmart shoppers.

0:58:04
Right.

0:58:05
And then, and then that way we, we keep our, our sangha very pure and we're able to, and then we're able to use our, our teachings to help people. Cause if you go to someone who's into rap music and Walmart, then they might really not like this. It might not work for them. And if we just try to keep them around because they see physical benefit, then that's not what this is about. So we want to talk, we want to teach people of like mind. And And so sometimes when you're a teacher, you start to sense an audience. It's important. You're like, hey. So sometimes a woman might say, I want to teach meditation for women because I feel a greater like-mindedness. And then, okay, that's good. There's a teacher, a contemporary of mine, who teaches in New York. And he's been teaching for a while, and he teaches professionals on Wall Street. That's his, he has a very strong focus on teaching professionals on Wall Street. And so, he teaches on Wall Street. And he's got many students. He's teaching job yoga and impeccability, right? And then he's got many students who really appreciate that. And they're, you have to know who you're working with, who you want to work with. Sometimes you want to teach martial artists. A lot of my students are black belts. Maybe you want to teach martial artists because there's a lot of teachings, just like in the Shaolin Temple, there's a lot of spiritual teachings in martial arts. So there's a lot of opportunities, but you have to know who you want to teach. And maybe it's just you want to teach in general. And then if you want to teach in general, look at what's happening in general. Look at the minds of the people where you're at. Because you have to be able to connect. You don't need to teach for everyone's satisfaction. You need to teach authentically so that the people who have a like mind, the mystics, can feel it and it'll be powerful and that will wake them up. It's a funny thing. All you have to do is get out of the way. I call it getting out of the way. So this is a second attention structure. It's a constructed spiritual element that you're involved in as a teacher. And then you come to it and you just follow these very simple things, just the work that you're doing. Just follow that structure. And then what comes out of you?

1:01:47
Powerful light. Powerful light.

1:01:58
When you're teaching, I'm talking a lot about tone out. Because when you get the tone out right, and the spirit works well, then when teaching you have to consider your appearance. It's like, how are you coming across? Because if you come across wrong, it won't work. So I mentioned this teacher who's teaching around Wall Street, New York. Now if he came dressed as a California hippie, people would be like, no, don't like it, walking away. But he comes to all of his classes wearing a suit. And then people respect him as a contemporary. So when you dress, you have to dress like the people you're talking about. Or, you have to dress in a way that works for them. So like in San Francisco, if you're going to sit with people, you know, it's nice to look a little bit spiritual, usually. Because San Franciscans like that. When I first started teaching like in Europe and Germany, I would wear a traditional robe. And then I got people to go, hey, I would listen. And then I realized that that made them think, this is a monk, I am not, it's like it's different, the teachings are interesting and I cannot do them myself. So then I was like, t-shirts, so you can change and you can see.

1:04:03
T-shirts with dragons on them.

1:04:05
But now, now I'm wearing whatever I'm wearing and I'm like, oh, I'm just talking to students. So you guys get to stick it. Just how I want. But the way you dress is important. There was a guy on a unicycle and he was dressed really shabby. Holes in his jacket, in his pants, in socks, but he was going around. And then, there's a guy on a bicycle. One of those old-fashioned bicycles with a big wheel, right? And then he had a top hat and a tuxedo. Very dressed. And you know what the difference is? Attire. I think Ottman caught that before anything else. So that is. And then location. As they say in real estate, location, location, location. Where you teach matters. If you teach in the wrong place, even if you've got the perfect teachings, they won't be there for it. Right? You walk out to the middle of the desert, no one's there, and you're like, I proclaim the most amazing teaching of enlightenment that will make anyone enlightened if they hear it! And no one would hear it. Now I saw this mistake before. So someone would like make, they would they would buy a meditation center, spend a lot of money on it, but the meditation center is at the in the wrong place. You know, if you're from Hungary, it would be like Zuglo. Don't put a meditation center in Zuglo. Or if you're in Paris, I don't know where. But just imagine, you know, like a little too far out of the city in the wrong place. And then what happens Not a lot of people are interested in going there. But you said, oh, it's a little affordable, so I put all my resources in buying a meditation center there. It would have been better for you to pay four times as much to have a class once a week in a yoga studio after hours somewhere where everybody wants to go, where they are. Location, location, location. It's a mantra. It's very important that you choose a place to go that makes sense. Where the energy is. You can find places that are affordable or even free, definitely, in places where there's a lot of people. But it has to be the right energy. You have to be accessible to the audience you're seeking if you're not accessible to them don't expect anything to happen

1:08:06
And so

1:08:08
Being accessible Means let's say that the audience you're seeking is you want students You're like I'm interested in people who have that kind of like energy they're young and they're like learning, well then teach at or near a college or university. And then there's a likelihood that they'll come. But if you teach away from it, in the outskirts of the city, and you want them, they probably won't So location is very important. If you're really interested, if you're a black belt and you want to teach martial artists, maybe you rent a dojo after hours and then put up posters and they'll go, oh, maybe I'll stay for that meditation thing. You know, stuff like that. Or this guy teaching on Wall Street. He's looking for a certain type of student, professionals, where he's teaching them tech ability and job yoga. And so if that's what he's teaching, is he going to go and get a meditation center in Southern Connecticut?

1:09:27
No.

1:09:28
The location is very important. And making yourself known. Once you've got that perfect location. And also, the perfect location these days might be online. Right? So, but online location is good too. You can do Zoom classes. People are looking more than before for something to not do. Those who can't do, teach. Perfect. So, teach. And it's important to, you know, recognize over a Zoom class is a real location. So you have to, you know, do meetups or Instagram or I don't know what you do, but you've got to make yourself known. If you have an amazing class and it's accessible and nobody can find it or see it, it's not in the right place, not the right location, or people can't find it, then it's not effective. So it's very important to figure out how people can find you. You put a lot of energy and attention beginning practices, basic practices of dreaming and stalking. And then once you have your group of students, and if you set it up correctly to teach, really within a year you should have a base group of students. And if you have that group, then we have this wonderful thing that we do. The Enlightenment Workbook, we love getting into yoga, getting into tech if you need a job. We love martial arts or scuba diving or anything that we do. We love these things. We love doing them together. It's fun, it's exciting, there's this feeling of growth, there's a feeling of opening. And we do it together as this happy team. It's a very clean structure. It's very empowering. It works. And this is the spirit in which we work together. And it's a happy and beautiful thing. This is the, what I call the darshan, introduction to the intermediate, which is more advancement in mindfulness, bodhicitta, job yoga, yoga projects. And this is the scope of the intermediate students' teachings. But it's fantastic. I remember I used to go with my mentor, like just about every weekend we would go up to Mount Tamalpais. And we would just hike up somewhere, sit and meditate, talk about the Dharma. Afterwards we'd go and have pizza somewhere or something like that, and we just had so much fun. It was so beautiful. So the intermediate student facilitates this very beautiful structure, very clean structure, and has a wonderful time. This is our way. So now, I'm going to give a transmission. This is the teaching transmission. And when you get this transmission, this is the intermediate student teaching. You can teach. You can bring someone. You can open the door to the pathway to enlightenment for someone.

1:14:57
You know, don't have to do it right away.

1:14:59
You can do it whenever you want. But this is something that gives you that connection and those tools to do this correctly. All right, so sit up nice and straight. And we're going to sit for one song, and I'd like you to focus on the third eye. And eyes open, looking up here towards me, me being your computer. And uh, I'm going to give you a good transition. Let's begin.

1:15:37
so so so so You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything Very nice. So we're going to take a break. I've been asked, hey, can we take breaks? We don't need long breaks, but we'll take a little break. When we come back, I'm going to have some of the very successful teachers,

1:17:12
maybe one or two or three of them, talk to you, give a little bit of a story or their experience or awareness of teaching. So we'll take a break. We're going to take a break for 10 minutes. And you're like, that's a long time. Ten minutes, and then we'll come back and we'll have a couple stories from teachers. And then after that, I think we have an important teaching from Lila about, especially for computer programmers and technologists, about getting a job in the current economy in America. in the current economy in America. Okay, so ten minutes. See you soon.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
