0:00:00
Hi guys, my name is Rafa. I want to share a couple of my experiences teaching meditation. First, I also like to reiterate that I was teaching meditation and I'm still teaching meditation because of gratitude for my teacher, because over the years I've recognized how he showed me the way out of spiritual suffering. And it's a very powerful thing. I consider it saving my life, pretty much. But the whole picture didn't come together. For a while, in the previous round, I was not teaching meditation. I was not ready. And in 2017, exactly about three years ago, someone announced that we are going to do this next round of teaching. And I was pretty excited to start teaching for the first time. And then, I think it was around the summer solstice, after the summer solstice, we went to watch the Wonder Woman movie with Sambara in San Francisco, in Japan town, it was an amazing movie and that's when everything all came together. As you guys may know, in the last kind of scene of the movie, Wonder Woman mentions that, oh, how she was helping people and saving the world and everything. She says, it's only love that's going to save the world. And that's when I started wondering how I and we can contribute to that. And then the second attention opened and I was able to see that it is simply teaching meditation. That's the primary way for us to save people's spiritual lives, so that they can get out of suffering. and we showed them the techniques and the methods that we know, mindfulness, meditation, and bodhicitta so that they can find a way out of suffering. And that was the main inspiration, motivation for me to start teaching. And then I remember, you know, it took like a month for us to set up meditation centers and everything. But I remember like some of us were on fire, so like two weeks later, like Ahimsa and I, we were like, we were like already teaching. It was a really powerful experience. And still, till today, I'm drawing from that realization when I teach meditation. So that I can share the techniques and methods that I learned that transformed my life completely. Another story I wanted to share, kind of like a set of small stories, is what I've observed and learned from students, is that, maybe two different aspects. One is that how meditation transformed their lives. For example, I think last year or two years ago, there was a student who shared, she emailed me after the first class that she has been smoking for many years. And she said, after one meditation class, she felt strong enough and powerful enough to put down smoking. And she has no intention of switching back to smoking. And she's so excited that she told every family member and every friend she had who she knows to come to classes. So it was super cool. So she showed up with her husband and her husband's sister and then later her mom came to the meditation. And so it was like a really, again this is just a way to see how people might be able to see the light and share it. to stop taking sleeping pills or anxiety medication. And I see that those are again some very practical manners and ways how even one or two meditation classes can increase the level of personal power a new guest or student has. And so they can make changes in their lives. And that's very, very powerful. And lastly, I want to talk about what's super beautiful is that how, again, somebody walks in the door, as Sambhar says, somebody might go to, with an analogy, he was in an analogy, somebody goes to a martial arts dojo, they're like, I just want to learn some defense or martial arts, and then they go in, and then Sambhar said, when they walk into a class, you know, with any of you guys now, any of us, it's like they don't know that they walk into Funakoshi's dojo, right? So you don't know, it's not like an average meditation class to learn some concepts. This is where you're going to learn real things from day one, and if you apply them, then your life is going to change. So it's really, really powerful. So I always like to observe how many classes it takes somebody to start to come over or email or mention something, saying that, hey, there is something with the lights in this room. Like, what are you doing? Or what is happening here? And I think one of the students, one of the first students, actually she came to my second class, and she kept coming consistently. And after five classes, she shared her experience that she was like, it was kind of okay in this room, but after the first meditation it got way brighter. So she started telling me, like, hey, you turned up the lights, obviously, right? But then they kept coming back and they realized nobody touches the lights and something changes in the room. And then later, what was interesting is that maybe, why, I don't know, but over time, I think, yeah, I think as you get stronger and better teacher, you can also attract the right people better and more people who are right for the path. So after a while, it was super exciting. I remember when Cathy showed up for her first meditation class. It was a good class. There was like many people. And I used to have support from my meditation teacher assistant Divya was supporting there and energetically, there was a very strong support that Manju, she was there in the front row and that was like an energetic protection and it was much easier to teach that way. So that day they were not there. I think there were like more than 20 people in class and the energy was super difficult, but Katie was there, she was able to see the light and after class she came over, she was like,

0:06:47
okay, this is super exciting, how can I learn more?

0:06:50
I want to do everything, this is cool. So after one class, she totally plugged in and she was able to see, she said, she shared that she was able to see the light.

0:06:58
And she was like, I'm definitely coming back.

0:07:01
So those are the cool experiences, how you can see how people develop themselves.

0:07:05
And maybe one more thing,

0:07:07
which is something very technical and interesting, is that first when you teach, you want to give attention to everybody, kind of like equally. But based on statistics I was able to see that people who have good questions even in the first class, second class, or email you back in a meaningful way, those are people who are interested, excited, and they have enough personal power to deal with what we are doing, and those people tend to come back and stay around. Statistically speaking, that's a much higher ratio. So some small things to observe. Those are the experiences that I wanted to share. Thank you very much.

0:07:51
So first of all, I'm so excited for all of you who are considering teaching, especially those of you on the fence, I encourage to give it a go. It's been the single most empowering thing that's ever happened to me in this lifetime.

0:08:08
In my first month of teaching,

0:08:10
I had been trying to get a Salesforce programming job for three years.

0:08:15
Within the first month,

0:08:16
I was handed a Salesforce programming job, my very first, and it was a significant raise as well. And I wasn't even applying. Small miracle in that it was just handed to me. I had never had any job handed to me prior to that. And then since then, I've had a couple more, more or less, handed to me. The interviews were like 30 minutes each, and they just want me right away. And so really, since I started teaching, my power just skyrocketed, and I really wasn't very powerful before teaching.

0:08:58
Miracles with Students, many, many.

0:09:01
So inspiring to watch. One of my students, in her first three months coming to the class, she got fired from her job. I asked her why. She said, because I'd been working for the same asshole for the last like three years. He's a jerk to other people too. And I simply stood my ground for the first time. No one else has ever stood their ground to him. And then he fired me the next day. Definitely harassing type and definitely lawsuit type. But we decided to put energy into the next higher paying job. And that's exactly what she did. She got a higher paying job within a month. Sambara calls that Buddhist payback. Something like that. Buddhist revenge. We don't retaliate. We just go beyond. It was very super high to watch. Also in those first three months, she got her own place. And in the beginning when I met her, she mentioned her husband who was verbally abusive and very disempowering for her. And somewhere right after getting the new job, she's like, yeah, I'm gonna leave my husband. Whoa, okay. You know, and that it was just, I was listening to her and how I could support her with that. And that's exactly what she did. She had been with them for 10 years in a very difficult state of mind that they co-created, and she was suffering for really the whole 10 years is what she said. And she's still on the path and she's growing and doing great. My other student in her first two months went from 60k a year to 120K a year. She had skills that she wasn't being recognized for or using in her current job. She was very disempowered by her current job because she was more or less a glorified office assistant, but the way she put it, getting people coffee at the company, they just don't look at you as someone who's special or an asset to the company. And I was having great psychic and psychological difficulty for her, confidence issues for sure. This is just from her meditating daily and coming to the class once a week and a little bit of one-on-one time. Her friends were telling her she needed more training to get that higher level paying job. I said, you don't need more training. You have these skills already. You just have to believe in yourself. And that's what she did. And she got the hundred, she was shocked. At first she came to me, she said, I got 110K job, but it's in Canada or some far away place. I'm like, oh no, you just, that's great. You got a job, but you're gonna leave us now, great. And then she, and then within a week of that, she said, I got a 120K job and it's here in the Bay Area. So that was the light, number one is always the light. Dream not you are the doer, dream not the power is yours to command from the Bhagavad Gita. The teacher is just like a liaison or even a puppet of eternity if you're being really humble. So really it's the light that really brought her to a new level of confidence. I gave her a little bit of structure and and really she started to believe in herself maybe for the first time in a long time. When a student goes through a transformation like this what I've learned, I didn't know this going into teaching, what I learned is that there's always this deep inner spiritual power that I feel. It's like I didn't do anything, they did it, but I feel it. And I don't know how to explain it, I'm sure Ajahn could clarify more for me, but my sense is that we are given as teachers a very high spiritual gift from eternity when we help another one up. So also what I love about teaching, and you have to learn to love this, it's not easy at first. Teaching is the ultimate playground for the spiritual path. You will never learn more about your own ego than as a teacher. But it's also an opportunity to love yourself deeper when you make mistakes because as a teacher you're going to make mistakes. Of course you learn from them, you journal them about them, you process them correctly, you do some exercise, try to clear out any negative energies inside your own minds, and you come out more powerful and stronger. It's the enlightenment workbook, but it's internal. It's deep introspection and you come out much more clear after those mistakes if you can love yourself through it as opposed to judging or hating yourself for making a mistake. So going into teaching, I would recommend anyone go in knowing that you're going to make mistakes and love yourself through it all and just learn to enjoy the process and don't worry so much about the outcome. One of the other parts of the supreme playground that teaching is, is getting to a point where you don't need validation from the guests or the students. Some days they'll love it, some days they'll be like kind of in another world. There's usually always one, as Raja was saying, there's one in the class that gets it and that can help you in those times where everyone else just seems so whatever, off. But not needing validation, not needing them to even smile. I am connected with eternity to share something that's been super bright and beautiful for me with whoever will listen, and that's why I'm here. And if they get it or not, I'm detached from that the best I can be. And furthermore, the supreme playground of teaching, detachment from outcome. You can't control students, you can lead them to water, you can't make them drink. You know, they're going to learn in their own time. You can guide, but you can't really save anyone's life. They can save their own life if they, you can give them structures and books and, and light, of course, but in the end, it really depends all on them and what they want in this lifetime. And learning to be detached from that has brought me to a whole other level of spirituality in my own life.

0:16:06
So also, one huge bright thing, you might think that,

0:16:10
oh man, what if I'm having a bad day, one of those bad days, and I have to teach, I'm obligated to teach, do I cancel the class? Yeah, that might be a legitimate consideration in some very extreme cases where, you know, the energy is just really off all day long and you got a 6 p.m. class. What I learned, and I've never canceled a class, I've learned that I could be having a really, really bad day. Like, really, I walk into the classroom just to even set up the room, clean the chalkboards, you know, just even little preparations for the class and Whatever happened earlier that day is gone. It doesn't exist for me. I'm not trying it's just the light starts working on me and of course you start meditating in the light and My meditations as a teacher on a whole nother level than when I'm meditating alone It's very much like being meditating directly with Sambara when I'm teaching because I am. And I even tell the students, you know, sometimes, try not to be too weird, right? But sometimes I feel it appropriate to explain that my teacher is with us right now. Almost done here. So, advertising, super fun. And it's also a selfless act. You're not trying to give people the advertising that you want to see, you're trying to tap into the psyche of the people that you ultimately want to find your class. And it's a third eye, it's a third eye practice, mostly. It's also heart, I would say, as well. And just super bright and happy. I encourage you all to give it a try. You know, whether it's posturing or online, you know, Facebook. There's a lot of us that can help you figure out Facebook campaigns if you need it. And then last but not least, some of the greatest inspirations in my life are my students. Watching them go through learning curves, watching them not give up, like when it gets hard, witnessing acts of compassion and kindness for each other. I literally have a tear in my eye right now just considering those times. It's so touching. These souls who are coming to your class are the creme de la creme, not to compare to anyone else, but they have been on the lifetimes in our lineage or similar lineages practicing high spirituality. Incredible people to be interacting with. So much better than going to the bar and finding friends at the bar or wherever else you might go for friends. And they're usually pretty confused in the beginning about because the world has covered over a lot of who they are already, but then they start to remember. And even in the first week or two, you'll get hints that this person, yeah, they have wisdom. It might be covered over right now, but they have lifetimes. A small caveat to that, one thing I found very helpful to teaching is to never ever assume that I know who is right for the path or not. I heard through the grapevine that Ram Rinpoche said that even he doesn't know who's going to be around a year later. Some might be so impeccable and just do it everything to a T and then he doesn't see him again after six months. And others who just are struggling, struggling, struggling, they're the ones who stay around long-term. It's not the fact, it's just... things aren't always what they seem, is what I'm trying to say. And so when I'm giving career help to someone or one-on-one time to someone, I don't care what they look like as far as whether I think they'll be around. I have my hunches, but I don't act on those hunches. I just give everyone as much, to the best of my ability, the same attention and support. And then, just along the lines of students being the coolest people to hang out with, sharing meals together, going on trips together. Postering might just be my favorite thing to do with my students. Trips to Mount Tam, meditating, Qigong, Wu Wei Do on the mountain, so bright and beautiful. And people having realizations about energy, energy body up there, that's awesome. And witnessing, well I already mentioned, just the acts of selflessness I've seen in students is really inspiring. So with that, I just want to say I'm truly looking forward to seeing the bright souls that you bring to our path and lineage, and I'm looking forward to meeting them all. So if you're on the fence, give it a good try at least. And looking forward to that. Namaste.

0:21:17
Hello, everybody.

0:21:18
My name is Tara. And I've also been teaching for the past three years. So some of you might know me, but for those of you who don't, nice to meet you. I am just humbled how much everybody covered already about teaching. And I attest to every point that Raja and Chitananda made. So it's hard to add to that, but I can tell you about my past with teaching. I started my first ever class that I taught was maybe 20, 19 years ago. It was a while ago. And back then I didn't know about teaching empowerment, or I didn't even know what it's like to teach. I think that Samvara just couldn't make it to class, so he asked me to teach people. I was a very young, starting student, and I had no idea. But I just knew that when Samvara taught me, it was pristine. It was really pure. It was, the energy would always come through him. He would be dressed perfectly. He would appear perfectly. He would teach perfectly. The meditation would be perfect. And I knew that when I had to teach, I had the same responsibility to the students. I had to be as impeccable as my teacher. And I had to bring them the finest because I received the fineness from Him. And so when we meditated for the first time, again, I didn't know anything about teaching and I didn't even think that I should be teaching, but whatever, I just, I did it because Samara asked. And then what I noticed is that all of a sudden, I meditated in a way that I've never meditated before, because my meditation was no longer about my practice, it was about their practice, about their proper introduction to light, the proper introduction to teaching, and proper sharing of the light. And of course, there's magic, like Samara said, in our school, there's a lot of magic. And so you become the conduit of light, and so the light comes through you. And you also are motivated, because you have so much gratitude to your teacher, you're motivated naturally to bring it forth to others. So the combination of your selflessness and gratitude produces, and magic, of course, produces these tremendous results of this really beautiful high meditations in which your intent is to share the light with others. So it was a long time ago, I think I've taught maybe once or twice, and I was like, Samara, what is happening? This is amazing. And Samara, you know, now you guys are lucky, you get to know a lot of secrets. We had to find out a lot of things for ourselves. So, you know, Samara said, yeah, teaching is nice. And I think I haven't really had an opportunity to teach until later, you know. And then I taught around 2008, 2009. And, you know, of course, all these amazing experiences of meditation were happening to me and unfolding. And I noticed, I think one lesson that I learned about teaching is that it's not about me. And it's such a breath of fresh air and it's such a relief because what a break you get from yourself when you teach. It's what a great opportunity to take a break from yourself. And isn't that what we really, really want, right? But we just can't seem to because there's so much self in the way when we do our own practice. But when you start practicing for others, it's not about you. And it's my favorite thing, you know. And of course, when I met Samara, my life shifted from this many possibilities to unlimited possibilities. And there's so much appreciation and gratitude to it that you just naturally want to share it. And I know that you will share it to your best because this light, this realm of possibilities probably touched you as well. And there's a lot of incredible stories of students and just seeing them transform and growing them, growing into the light and knowing that you have nothing to do with it. And it's not about you and you're just a vehicle, you know, a conduit. And to bring the light into their life and just watch it transform before your eyes. And I loved all the points that Chitananda made. You just have to be detached. It's hard. You know, my students know I'm not always detached. It's hard to be detached. So you just use the power of light and just knowing that the light will work through them. And you just, you know, it's really like we learn in yoga, you put your best foot forward, you work on impeccability, right? And you work on selflessness, knowing that it's not about you. And just see the light unfold in their life. It's hard, you make mistakes. Again, I've been teaching three years consecutively, for three years I've been teaching every week, whether it's in America or in Iceland. And every week it's a new lesson for you, new lesson for them, for your students. And it's every week it's not about you. I love that about teaching, I really do. And I do things that I normally wouldn't do. Like I make it a point to exercise before teaching because I know that my energy body has to be pure, it has to conduct the light, it can't deal with toxins in my aura, whatever I picked up. I exercise before every class. I wouldn't do it normally maybe for myself, but I will do it for my students because they know they deserve better and the light has to be shared properly. I will meditate better with them when I have a hard day. I will let it go and then I will let the light come through me to the best of my best just because I know it matters. It's about them. And that's my favorite part. It's not about me and it keeps unfolding. You keep learning. So it's a lot of learning. I've made so many mistakes. First, second, and I'm still learning. Great. But it gets better. So the thing about it, even if you slow to start, these things are not working out the way you want them to work out. It's always you always get better at it with practice. So if you are interested to interested to explore teaching, I think that the best way to do it is to work at it. You know, the words, the wording, how you present it, how you present the subject, how you meditate, how you relate to them, you know, your detachment. It's really hard to be detached. You kind of get motherly with your students and it's hard to like let it go and let them be, but you know, you have to do that. So that's also learning. That's for me, it's probably the biggest learning to be how to be detached. So that's what I wanted to share with you and know that the resources are here for you, available. If you need to ask students who've taught before, we can talk to you and share our experience and you share your experiences and it's a beautiful journey. Thank you.

0:29:38
All right.

0:29:39
So thank you, Raja. Thank you, Chidananda.

0:29:43
Thank you, Tara.

0:29:44
Those were very beautiful stories. And these are very successful teachers. They've been teaching for a long time and they've done an impeccable job and helped many people. And as you can see, it helps them as well. So this is a very beautiful dharma, teaching. Now, you know, I know I'm teaching a lot of people teaching for the first time, and you might not be in any place right now in your life where you're ready for it or whatever. That's okay. I figure since There's a Dharma to teach it. I Will teach and then you have this Dharma within you we can call it a seed It's a seed that you can decide to plant and water Anytime that you want it's a but you got it. That's a really lovely thing now This

0:30:47
That's a really lovely thing.

0:30:48
Now, this intermediate teaching is coming to an end. We're going to move to another powerful intermediate teaching. And this is gonna be a teaching from Leela. Now, this is a teaching for job yoga in the coronavirus apocalypse. And so this is gonna be a very powerful teaching about what is it like now as a computer programmer to get a job. And this is keyed to Lila's contemporaries, people who are computer programmers who may be looking for jobs. And she will teach on that. After Leila's teaching, we're going to take a 10-minute break, and then we're going to come back for a final teaching from me. And it will be a short one, and the intermediate students are also welcome to come to the last teaching with me but it will be a little bit more on the advanced side. Okay so we're going to switch over to Lila and

0:32:11
then I will see you after the break. So today I would like to talk about how to get a job in the current economic situation. So what happened to me in the middle of April, I've been let go my current job and I had to face job search idea in this field of shutdown and pandemic and great intensity of fear and insecurity in people's mind. But I would like to share my story today how I was able to land in the next contract with 20% more salary in four weeks. So let me start with the concept of compassion and gratitude. We are talking about everything everything in life we do we usually consider to thinking about ourselves and thinking about others as well in a light of compassion, gratitude. So my compassion was a consideration that there are so many people are suffering in pain, in insecurity and especially in the situation, they got laid down and they had to face this hard karma of the planet to deal with it. So that maybe this is a beautiful opportunity for me to also be connected with this field and to share the light of liberation with this field for the whole world and especially with my Sango members. best I can do for you to help is to succeed myself. I know if I will do it, it will set a good positive way of success for others to do it. I also had a deep gratitude in my heart for this. As we got a free spiritual trip, retreat basically at home, so I didn't mind to stay home and be more turning inside, focus on more mindfulness, focus on more sharpening my tech skills and going into a different state of mind Which is sharper and more focused and more successful So it was a great opportunity for for a shift in energetically physically in every way and I also was very grateful to experience the concept of samsara is nirvana Meaning in suffering through suffering you can also experience your liberation you can integrate it so I was really grateful for this opportunity as well. So what did I do? I was aware that time is money and cash flow means energy flow as we know so I didn't waste my time and in media action was very crucial that's what I thought, and with a warrior mindset I jumped right into my job search. Job search is like a boot camp where you don't have time for wishy-washy things, you gotta do it, you gotta be really on it all the time, like day and night pretty much. I was certain that I will succeed. So on our five, as you know, if you know already, that we are also teaching Golden State technology, not just to gain the tech skills, but also to get a job. And this is a skill in life. When we learn, we also will be able to use in any crucially horrific situation to succeed, basically succeed in any parts of our life, not just in jobs. So I was really much certain that, oh, I got a job first time, I remember how I did it, since then I did it 10 times, so this is nothing different, I'm just doing the same thing, I'm just doing the same things what I did before. So first what I did is set my mind on my goal and I used my stalking and dreaming powers to prepare for this adventure and I was laser focused, sharp with my attention and basically jumped right into my job search. If you don't know this concept, so dreaming and stalking, dreaming is mostly, when you do dreaming, it's most about the subtle aspects of your life like mindfulness, visualization, dreaming, feeling, focusing and the stalking it's more of a first attention what you do, what you act, what is tangible like exercise and writing and moving and coding, a lot of action. So both sides you have to exert yourself to focus on all of those skills to put it in your job search. So my dreaming, I pulled out my vision board, I don't know if you have a vision board, but I have a vision board and I write down detailed manner what job I would like to get, what is the salary expectation I would like to get, I wanted to increase it with that 20 percent and you know the location of the job, the team size and every basically important detail that matters for me I wrote it down. So dreaming is start also with believing or seeing that this life is also a dream. So you're able to create anything what you want in this life like you you are able to do it in your dream. Even if you do it unconsciously, you're doing it. So you have to be able to see how to connect to the field of dreaming and bring it down here in this dream, in this reality. It's like a seed we plant and we nurture it and the seed grows into our physical reality. It's just manifest. You've got to be ruthless with sticking with your dream, meaning your whole life has to be about job search. So don't let anything to come in your attention and put away social media and relationships and all other factors in life which would break this focus this Desire for Feeling for creation what you're doing what you're creating for yourself in your reality So wake up as such a beautiful day for a job search and go to sleep as like wow it was such a successful day with new interviews, new opportunities, so be positive about it. is I cut all of my lines from my previous job and how I did it in my mind I pulled back all of the energies I invested into my previous job meaning like from my manager particularly from my desk, from the office all of that situation I imagine that I'm pulling all of those lines back so I collect more energy to put into my job search to to get to the next situation. And also the Catholic personality I used throughout my previous job, I also recreated it, so let it die, deleted it, and I created a new one, a fresh one, which I thought it would be more successful. I also thought outside of the box and don't set limitations for your goals. It's important to really, really try to see and go beyond what you can do and see beyond what you can, what is possible for you. So if you were a front-end developer and you have to open your mind in this current situation and really look into every single job, it's out there. So like if it's content management or Salesforce or backend or anything that's out there, like documentation or anything, secretary, look into anything you can, because that's how it's going to happen when you completely open yourself up to new opportunities. Also, not just close yourself down. Of course, you have to have a focus what you want, but also you have to be open to let it in. So I would like to talk about my stalking process now. So you have to put in the right physical effort also. What I did without thinking, without feeling sorry for myself, what happened, without wallowing my self-pity, I didn't waste a moment and I immediately started to act and applied for jobs, updated my resume, applied for 50 jobs per day, started to talk to recruiters like pretty much whole day, picking up phones and talking to recruiters and started to work on my tech skills, sharpen my skills, work on coding assignments. So it was moving my energy field already, so I didn't have time to wallow in this fear and insecurity that came from the world and from the people. But I immediately rode my wave like a surfer would. I immediately paddled fast, I caught my wave and I was sitting descending on my board and going with this flow. So it was it was really energetic. Prepare yourself like a warrior for a battle. Focus on your naval chakra while you're talking to your recruiters or interviewing you can do a horse stance if you know what is that you can just exercise go into nature and basically be grounded it's very important to be grounded if you just lose energy and lose time and money. So make sure that you eat the right food. So if you feel that your body is full of toxins, then go into a cleansing diet. Or if you feel that you're too spaced out, then eat some meat, eat some grunding food. So you'll balance yourself out. It's important to keep yourself balanced and strong and focused on your goal. Not just do everything in the dreaming and the stalking realm, but don't take care of yourself. You also have to take care of yourself, like meditate, be mindful, exercise, go in the nature, walk in the nature, and you will see so much more oxygen goes into your brain, so much clearer your thoughts will become so much better so much more your mind will grab the coding new coding topics in a sharper way so yeah take care of yourself um I also um in this sangha we have a mastermind group, I call it Sanga Sister Brother Helpline for coding questions and for sharing information like slack. So through interview process it's also very very very supportive and helpful if you connect with a Sanga member who is also in the job search and you share your interview questions and answer some coding assignments and you support each other and their success is your success. If they succeed in something you feel that you succeeded, you feel that and you support each other. So I recommend to use the help of Sangha, sisters and brothers. It's a great advantage when you go to an interview and you know what they're going to ask from you and what exercise or what coding assignment you have to code there. So it's a half success already, but of course, you have to fill the other half yourself. So my ads were about 100 to, 1 to 100. As a recruiter, how many resumes are there for one job? Because I felt great stress and pushing from recruiters, so they told me it's about 100, so I was like, okay. So they're saying that I have a chance. So I was really positive about it. And also I had this warrior feeling in me that challenge accepted, no problem but don't waste your energy on the recruiter games they will tell you that this is a different situation, this is a pandemic now, so the rates are lower and you have to go lower. So they try to just go with their game. So don't mind their games, just listen to them, and just express what you want, what is you want, this is what I want, I'm here to get a job, this is my rate, I'm not settling, this is my expectation Can you help me with this? And then they will work with you, so they just wanna kind of put their game on you for you and or for them to let yourself like to push down, let your energy be drained. It's not a good dharma for any of you so just be mindful of that, that you are more compassionate and more powerful if you stand your ground and don't settle. So the antidote is stay positive and professional. Don't feel defeat or loss. Winning or losing is just ideas anyways. And what matters is really just participating and participating called life. Many times when you interview, for me actually, many times when I interview I get a lot of no's, rejections, and no for me always tells next opportunity. So I'm always happy about it when I'm getting a no because I know that I'm getting closer to my potential offer. Believe in miracles also, it's important in our... we are meditating, we are magical people you know. So believe in miracles, the universe will get you the best job that you dreamed for yourself and no means this wasn't the perfect job for you, this is not what you would want it. So I always see no in a way of the universe has something better for me so I'm very positive and excited about How it happened to me, it was a miracle, I would say, so the magic worked itself through my being. After interviewing and failing many, many interviews, coding tests, I had a 10-minute conversation with my future manager and I made a real impact and got the offer on the spot. So how it happened I was wearing my power suit I was drenched with the fragments of the power I smelled power and I projected a sphere of energy and success through the whole conversation. I also believed that I would be the perfect fit for this situation and I expressed it also. I expressed my gratitude that I'm grateful for the opportunity opportunity and basically for every answer, every question I've been asked my answer was a big yes and smile and if I didn't know what the answer I whatever it takes to do. I got this. So this was my success story and sharing of the story telling you how you also can succeed in this situation. Miracles and if you don't give up and persist you will succeed and it's guaranteed so if it could happen to me it could definitely happen to you and I believe in your your dreaming and stalking and magical power skills that you can do it. You can do it. Thank you.

0:53:43
Thank you, Leila. That was really wonderful. So this is important because Leila does this thing called not just talking the talk but walking the walk. This is a very important thing in our school. This is something that my teacher always said. You don't just talk and say things, but you have to prove it in your physical life. So if you're able to increase your strength and your career success, then it's real. Then your meditation is real. If you're getting a black belt in martial arts, that means that, you know, the things that you're doing in your spiritual practice are actually helping your physical life. So there's this balance of spiritual and physical

0:54:36
that are going up.

0:54:37
So it's really, really powerful. You know, Leela, when she was going through her enlightenment cycle, becoming liberated, she had a job. She worked a job. She wasn't like sitting on some silk pillows, people fanning her. She was like, had a job, working, and becoming enlightened. And then, when the coronavirus started and then her company freaked out and fired all the consultants, she put her mind into it, and she went through a really difficult market, and she succeeded in getting a really good contract. So this is what we call walking the walk. And if it was like, oh, I'm, you know, when you're liberated, you might be very, very sensitive, and the world might be very, very intense. But if you can face that intense world, and go through all the hardships, all the difficulties and still succeed. And that shows that your spirit is strong and not just sensitive, but really awakened

0:55:49
like a warrior.

0:55:50
So this is a very beautiful teaching. And I really appreciate the three teachers who shared their experiences. Raja's experiences, these were very beautiful teachings for everyone, really, really helpful. So when Raja was sharing his experiences, they were very, very wonderful, very, very bright. And the thing I liked about Raja is he had some very beautiful mystic connections that he's bringing in and this is what we do when we go to places of power. We make connections with places and the energy of the place kind of comes through you and he used those in his teachings in ways that benefited his students. So it's really really really And then Chidambara's

0:56:52
recapitulation of his teaching experience is very, very good—

0:56:57
really, really wonderful.

0:56:59
One of the wonderful things

0:57:00
that he shared was, he was like, he was pointing at the third eye. He was like, you've got to be able to connect to people, to bring the right people to your class.

0:57:13
This is definitely true.

0:57:14
It's a very, very powerful thing. And so in him sharing that, you can kind of feel something really, really strong. It reminds me of when Savitri was teaching in the mission in San Francisco. She put up this one poster and the poster said, there are no coincidences. Come to meditation, Mondays at 5 or something like that, right? And so people, when you're teaching and you're putting up your poster or your Instagram or your meetup or whatever, the art and the words you say, people will connect to it if they have a feeling for it, if they have an intention for it, the way that Chittendanda was talking. They're powerful. So people were walking down the street, saw a little meditation poster, and there were no coincidences,

0:58:18
and they were like,

0:58:19
Oh, there's no coincidences,

0:58:20
but I've got to go! It's true!

0:58:22
So that was a powerful truth. When you're teaching, there has to be a truth in your marketing. Okay, and then Tara's teaching was very, very beautiful. Tara did an amazing job, does an amazing job. Very, very bright. Very, very Tara energy. One of the things she was talking about the first time, so I was like, I'm taking the night off, you teach. But I remember that I think the first time that I had her teach anything was I said, we're going to do, you know, Golden State, the beginning, like, we're going to start teaching tech. And she was like, okay. And I said, so, you know, I got a classroom at the local college. And I said, okay, and we're going to teach tech from here. And I said, you know, we'll get a class and, you know, 20 or 40 people will come and then I'll teach some and you teach some, she's like, okay, okay. So I'm like, I'm going to teach you how to teach. She's like, okay. And we got like 140 people. So we had to break it up into two larger classrooms. And then I said, there's too many people, you got to teach your own class. And I'll teach mine. And she's like, what? So you just had to like, you know, do six or eight months of teaching meditation. And then there was this big, what was it, I think it was a concert or something and they they wanted somehow she knew someone who wanted a teaching on meditation so she got up at some big concert on stage with the microphone talking to like maybe over a thousand people teaching tech so I have been pushing her into it since the beginning because she has a lot of amazing light to share and so do you. So we're going to take another 10 minute break we're going to come back and then I'm going to have a short teaching, just about some more advanced subjects, and

1:00:57
then voila!

1:00:58
Thank you!

1:00:59
I was just considering the teachings and I'm like, there's a lot more. So we've already gone for a long time today. have just a random transmission. Just random. But I'd like to make an acknowledgement. I've had a number of Hungarian students who have been ready I'm ready for the intermediate teachings for a long time. They've had the right level of practice, their yoga rank is strong, they've been capable and ready. And I think even last time I was in Hungary, I was like, maybe next time. Because to do a transmission takes a lot of energy. I had certain teachings I wanted to get done and I was like, and we're like, should we do the transmissions now? And I'm like, no, no, no, no, maybe I will plan for it next time. But I think it was maybe a few weeks ago I said, this time can be the initiation, the intermediate initiation. And so I think there's 16 students in Hungary who are coming up to the intermediate level. We have a student who's a grand fellow and he is on fire with the pack, but he's a leader of an alcohol anonymous program. So he has like 25 people in his group where he kind of guides them how to get out of drinking too much. And he really follows things that he's learned in the study, and meditation and connecting with the divine, and things that he's learned in the Enlightenment workbook. And he's committed himself to translating the Enlightenment workbook to Icelandic. So that's an amazing thing. So one very powerful dharma of teaching is called the translator. So we have Marpa the translator in Hungary who translated many books, many books of spirituality from English to Hungarian or from Chinese to Hungarian. And there's a very powerful dharma in translation. So translating the Enlightenment workbook into Icelandic will help many people. Most, almost all Icelanders speak English, read English perfectly well, but when it's in your language, it touches your spirit more.

1:04:36
So that's really beautiful.

1:04:38
That's a very beautiful one. And then we also have Jess from Paris. And Jess is also a translator. And a really good one. So in Paris it's me and Jess against the French. So we have a really great time. I usually try to get it like Paris I'll spend a little bit more time than the rest of the places. Usually I'm like, I dive bomb from San Francisco into Reykjavik. I teach the same night that I get there. And then the next day I'm flying off to like Budapest or actually to Munich. Then I get to Munich and I'm there for a day. Then I go to Vienna for a day. Then I'm in Budapest for like, you know, 10 days or something. Cause there's a big song that said we have to do lots of things. And then I get to Paris and then Paris, I'm there for a few days. First day I get in and out and then by this time I'm already for that, I'm like acclimated to the time zone. So I get there and then I meet with Jess and I say, okay, here's what we're going to teach about. We go out to dinner somewhere. And I love, I love Paris. And so I'm like, Jess, where do you want to go? Recommend a restaurant. And then we go somewhere really nice. And then we talk about what we're going to teach. Then the next day, I did teaching. It's very beautiful. And an amazing thing about a translator is to translate just the words is one thing, but to translate the meaning. So I've had several translators, it's called translation yoga, in Budapest, who've been able to translate the meaning, the dharma, not just the words. And then this is what Jess does in Paris. And this is something that's very,

1:06:57
very powerful and beautiful.

1:06:59
So these are the currents that create the opportunity for the intermediate transmission

1:07:17
It's sharing the Dharma this is teaching

1:07:20
You know and all being a very strong

1:07:24
yogi

1:07:25
years of meditation practice focus diligence so the Hungarians also, whether you're a teacher or not. You don't need to be translating in Hungary, but in Hungary you're following a very strong structure, a very strong sangha, a big mission. So this is wonderful. And for Paris and Iceland. We have a group of people, but these translations are what create an opportunity for many. So, we're going to sit for one song, for no reason.

1:08:13
But I would like to acknowledge, you know, just that as a sangha worldwide, we're growing.

1:08:15
Even now, in the corona apocalypse, we're growing because people follow the Dharma. People share the Way. Translation is sharing the Way, the Spirit sharing the Way. So this is good. All of these teachings, they're ways of sharing the Way. This is what the Buddha said, learn the Dharma. Learn it. Like feel the spirit of it. Learn something and then share the way. This is what we do in translation. This is what we do in teaching. And also in just learn the way, being is sharing the way. There's so many ways to share the way. So I'd like to sit with you.

1:09:44
We're gonna sit for one song,

1:09:47
focus on the third eye, and then this is again a transmission. And in the transmission, you don't have to do very much. Try to still your mind a little bit. A little soft focus on the third eye. And then look at your computer screen. Or your phone screen. Or whatever. So, I've set up my system and let's begin.

1:10:28
so so Thank you. You're my sunshine, you're my sunshine You're my sunshine, you're my sunshine You're my sunshine, you're my sunshine You're my sunshine, you're my sunshine so you you Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you. All right, so thank you and goodbye. This is very nice and it's a long teaching. I think you guys can handle. Very nice. So we will have another teaching next week. And this is for the whole Sangha. And there's also going to be a continuation of this teaching because I want to teach some more, I want to get some more of the advanced subjects, but I also want to invite the intermediate students. advanced transmissions separately, but I kind of want the intermediate students to hear the advanced teachings. I think that would be good to hear. Okay. Thank you all so much. the advanced teachings. I think that would be good to hear. Okay. Thank you all so much. And be well!




Transcribed with Cockatoo
