0:00:00
Look, I've got my dragon.

0:00:04
No, that's okay.

0:00:06
This is my Halloween costume. I'm a dragon.

0:00:10
Okay.

0:00:12
All right.

0:00:14
So, welcome. We're going to start with meditation. So we're going to meditate to a song called The Nile. It's a river in Egypt. And we're gonna meditate, the song is about 10 minutes long, so it's a little bit of a longer song. So we're gonna just focus on the heart chakra, and we're just going to still our mind and have a meditation. So sit up nice and straight, and let's begin. So sit up nice and straight and let's begin.

0:00:52
So, so so so So. So So, So. So, so you Lovely. So, in the new year, if we make it that far, I'm going to have more in-person teachings with

0:09:48
Bodhans and advanced students. So we might be meeting at Montero Beach, maybe smaller groups in the Dharmavilla backyard, maybe Mount Tamil Pius, maybe I'll find some other locations. But we'll be having some additional meetings. And for the advanced students, I'm going to give some more advanced teachings. So advanced students have given a lot of the empowerments and that's good, but I can also give teachings that help you to bring that empowerment into manifestation a lot faster. So I think this will be good. We're looking at the, the structure for the Buddha dojo next year. And it's looking good. We've, we've got a good structure. It's been simplified, and it's gonna, it's gonna be really really supportive for new students for existing students, and also for advanced students a little bit more on top of the Buddha Dojo, I guess it's extra. So the Buddha Dojo, while it includes everything, I might just say, hey, you know, let's go meet in person. So Buddha Dojo is really a structure for delivering the Dharma online. That's the primary force for the Buddha Dojo. So on top of that I'll be having in-person meetings with you guys. So it'll be additional. Buddha Dojo. One thing that we're doing in the Buddha Dojo is we're getting some additional teachers who are ST1s or ST2s. So I kind of opened it up a little bit more to see if there were others out there who wanted to come by and teach. And so there are. So we'll be graced with some additional teachers. So it's a very special thing to be able to have these ST1s and ST2s who are teaching because they went through a whole bunch of special lessons with Ram Rinpoche, and they learned all sorts of different things. So it's kind of like if you're hanging out with a student of Funakoshi, who's the founder of Shotokan, and the student is showing you, this is what Shotokan is. But then some other person who was a student of Funakoshi comes over and says, oh yeah, and they'll have different insights into the same teachings. So that's something that really is very positive and powerful for aiding your practice. So that's the good part. And then the thing is, though, the students of Rama, as an organization, are not organized. There's no organization. So Rama did not really leave a functional sangha when he left the body, all of his students just went off and did whatever. They were like this big herd of cats that were following Rama, and then when he was gone, they went, whoosh. no real structure to the teachings of the advanced students, I mean, the students of Rama. So, they have all sorts of lessons, insights, and magical experiences, and things like that, but they are not within a structure. And so, the organization of Rama students is not only immature, it just isn't.

0:14:52
It's non-existent.

0:14:53
So there are some organizations like the Rama Meditation Society, RMS, and that's a group of students who have a website and they provide Rama's materials. That's their big focus. And then there's the American Buddhist Society. This is a group of Raman students who get together, share stories about Rama, and they are trying to do things for the sangha. Like one of their projects is taking care of the aging sangha. So they're like, hey, you know what? A bunch of us are getting old and You know because we've practiced inaccessibility so long and we were like cats and we all ran off in our own directions if there's no Organization. What do we do to support each other? So they're creating a project to Support people who you know get older might need help And things like that. So they're so they're doing very positive things. So those are two organizations. But those organizations are organizations of kind of supporting each other, maybe managing Brahma's teaching materials and things like that. But they're not a structure of developmental enlightened practice. So that comes under the venue of teachers. So there's some teachers out there. And I'm a teacher, Khandelini is a teacher, Turiya is a teacher, Agnika is a teacher, Shiva is a teacher. So there are some teachers who have created schools. Some of the schools are big schools, some of the schools are small schools. A teacher has created a structure from Rama's teachings, but a developmental structure that brings you to enlightenment. And we call it, I'm calling it a dojo. So different teachers have created these schools. And so these are the schools where new people can come in, they can get exposed to Rama's teachings and follow those teachings to spiritually develop themselves. So if you go to the ABS group, well, they can give you Rama's book or Rama's video or something like that. Those are, you know, kind of, they're powerful, but they're static. They don't have teachings. They don't have a way for someone to develop. But if you, you know, go and study with Turiya. Turiya has a school and in her school, Dharma Center, she has a practice, a structure, a way where you can come in, you can learn, you can develop and hopefully become enlightened. So there are different organizations of Brahma students, but mostly all the organizations are very kind of new and just kind of immature. So our Sanda is probably the most mature organization just because we've developed greater success, let's say, in core practices, greater success in the basic practices of spirituality, solid in meditation and mindfulness. But also we've had powerful yoga success that And we also have lots of black belts. And a lot of people have really gotten their black belt in job yoga. So this is something that even the ST1s and ST2s are weak at compared to our organization. And we've also developed our organization, our organizational structures, our Sangha org and developing the Buddha Dojo. These are sophisticated structures that are able to self-manage and also be industrial enough to carry the enlightened teachings in a very, very profound way. So even that, you know, and also I was able to bring one student so far, the first student who got the Kalachakra empowerment, I was able to bring that student to liberation, primary enlightenment. So, so far we have stronger structures and actualization of the teachings of Rama in this school, in this structure, but we're still a very immature organization. So as my advanced students teach more, as my advanced students become liberated, then we have greater and greater maturity. And then as my advanced students teach new students and those students become strong in meditation, mindfulness, job yoga, yoga, advanced teachings, enlightenment, this is of an organization. So enlightened maturity is good. And I'm not talking about falling into routine structures, right? So even at the time of the Buddha, there was an immature organizational model, but there was a lot of enlightenment in it. The teachings were very, very, very strong. And then there was a much more mature model later, so like the time of Nalanda, that was a very mature organizational model. And in that model there was many enlightened students. So we are in the Buddha Dojo creating a stronger maturity model in the structures of this organization. So it'll be something that is So, there's, so by participating, by learning, and by being advanced students, you know, you're really, you know, the ones who are making this structure possible and effective for bringing enlightenment for others. And also yourself. That's the good thing. When you're working in a strong developmental structure, it's something that benefits you. So I like to say that this is the golden pyramid. And by you being a strong practitioner, you become the golden brick. And then you're in a greater structure, a greater configuration. And that's something that is powerful. But also, since it's a golden pyramid, it compels you as a brick, as an individual brick, to be gold. So if it was like a golden pyramid, except for that one right there, that brick is like purple, we'd be all, hey, come on purple. And purple goes, yeah. There's a lot of energy in the structure of the golden pyramid to be golden. That's our way, goldenness. So, yeah, so this is a fun time and a good time to be pivotal in creating the structure of the Golden Pyramid, of this more mature model of Sangha structure for your liberation, but it also creates an amazing structure for bringing the teachings of enlightenment from our lineage, from Ram Rinpoche to others. So this is a wonderful thing. Now, the ST1s and ST2s who are coming to teach, we have as a dimension dimension of our golden pyramid, we have these ST1s and ST2s. And then they'll come in and they'll be able to teach all sorts of interesting, amazing things. And what it does is for the advanced students, it gives you guys a lot more power and insight. So, I might teach in a very kind of structured way and then there'll be some kind of like radical teacher who has like this totally different view on it, which is also true. And then you'll listen to that and say, wow, okay, it opens up a new way of looking at the same teachings of Dharma. So you know, if I'm a Funakoshi teacher and I'm like, okay, you know, you're supposed to punch like this, right? And I'm like, yeah, always like this, always like this, and I'm teaching it. And then all of a sudden, Agni Kala shows up and he goes, yeah, you gotta go, you gotta go out, scream and you know, Chi, and he has a different energy when he's explaining it. It's the same structure. We all learned this from Rama, but it's, you know, it's his, it's his style of energy and sharing it and what he got out of these enlightened teachings. So then you can say, wow that was cool, I see a whole new dimension to that technique. So that's good. And that way you're able to get stronger. And you know you're able to get a lot of different viewpoints, bigger awareness, stronger, like background deeper roots and in awareness of the lineage. But of course, it's very important that you know, Savitri in her last class, she's all like, yeah, I was like smoking pot and doing bodhisitta, you know, like, you're all like, oh, take in all the suffering, man,

0:27:24
and then hold it.

0:27:25
Of course, I mean, she was the one who was teaching, right? And so if you do that, then it's like, or, you know, it's like, if you get into that and you go, oh, so I'm supposed to do that, and that's my practice, or that's Brahma's way, or something like that. If you start to think that, then you get confused. And so, not that it isn't Brahma's way, but he never had us actually But it's like the way could be considered to be very, very large. And that's why there's a lot of different dimensions of looking at something. However, you follow a certain path, a certain structure, because it's developmental. So if Savitri, as you would, says all sorts of things about drugs and then I think Allah says hey, let's go, you know play the bongos and Bongo's is the way to enlightenment or something like that, right? So you might get all sorts of different really different viewpoints on spirituality from students of you know direct students of Rama and That's awesome. And it's wonderful if you are strong in your structure in this dojo. If you're not strong in your structure in this dojo, then every person who tells you something will draw your attention that way. You'll run around like a cat following one of those little lasers. You'll be like, oh, there's some light. You'll be like, there's some light. You'll be running. Yeah, so you have to be established in your practice and established in the structures in which you have developed in. And then that way when you see all sorts of other things, you are able to take them with a very, very vast perspective. You're able to see really cool, wonderful things that open your mind to different understandings. Because, you know, we practice bodhicitta intensely. And then if you think about, if you reflect on it in the spirit in which Savitri is talking about it, if you're, if you think about smoking marijuana and practicing bodhicitta, it adds a whole different way of looking at it. So it's very, very mind-altering. However, if you started to do that, then you would break out of the structures in this school in this dojo that hasn't been developmental, all of the empowerments and teachings here have created the foundation of practice that has created development. If you get confused, it brings you off of that. So like, you know, like if you're in a taekwondo class, you're learning to kick, and then if a hop-kido teacher comes over, they do like aikido, like wrist locks and stuff, and, you know, the teacher comes in, shows some cool things, you say, yeah, this is really cool. So it's true in martial arts, those two things are both martial arts. They both do the same thing. They are ways of winning against an opponent with attacking you. However, you're in the Taekwondo dojo, and there's a way to develop in there. You start just going off into hopkido and, you know, hanji or something like that. You're just going into every other dough. Then what you miss is you actually miss the way you stop your development and what gets you higher. You start spending energy and attention on things that go a different way. You've gotta push your power to a certain level. So if you're like going towards that level and then you start doing other things, then you're diffusing your attention. I say this again and again, it's very important. So the etiquette in the Buddha Dojo is that we have Hakido teachers, Aikido teachers, Iaido teachers, Tai Chi teachers, Shikkan teachers. So you've got lots of people come in who are focused maybe on very, very, very different aspects of martial arts. But we all studied from this martial arts master, right? And so when they come in, they're showing different techniques, different ways, and everything like that. In the dojo. I'm creating a structure for this to expand your awareness and give you, you know, greater views and seeing different dimensions of these teachings. However, it's important for you to recognize and remember the structures of the dojo. And then so that you don't have, you know, one becoming two, don't break into a diversity. So the etiquette is when you're learning these things in the dojo, it's good and that's why these teachers are here. But you shouldn't say, oh wow, so now I like that technique so I'm going to do that technique instead. So if you start to do that, you'll probably find that you're falling outside of the dojo rules. You can do it a little bit. You can experiment with it. But here we have practices that we do. And if you say, yeah, you know, you do Bodhicitta, but I do this other practice, and you should be. So, we have practices that we do here. It's something that unifies our attention. And if you start doing anything else, your own practices, then you shouldn't be in the dojo. You should go and make your own dojo. Or go to their dojo, right? So, it's important that we follow the foundation, the structure of this school, which is actually the primary teachings of Rama's school. And I'm the only teacher who teaches it, which is computer programming, martial arts, and meditation. So those are the three powerful things that Rama taught. We were always saying that, we're learning meditation, martial arts, career, success. Those are the three pillars of Rama's teachings. Now there's lots of teachers who teach Rama's meditation and spiritual practice. Not many are successful in teaching career success, and I don't think anyone else teaches martial arts. So this is a school where the foundations of what we practice are very aligned with what Rama actually taught, and that we actually put this all together. not just an enlightened teacher who teaches meditation. It's actually teaching what Rama taught. So it's a very good structure. But if you start going, well, I'm gonna start smoking weed and practicing Bodhisitta, then you'll be outside of those teachings. And then you're going your own way. You broke the etiquette of the school. You're not following, you wouldn't walk into a karate dojo and start doing Aikido. If you did that, you'd be an idiot. So if you're an idiot, you're gonna start practicing the wrong lessons in the dojo. So I would recommend that when we do have the S2Ns and ST2s teaching, that you learn, see new dimensions, get a, you know, it's really good, because like if you do it right, you know, I'm sitting there saying it's one, you know, here we're always practicing like this, and you'll see someone else who's like, well, you got a kiai with it, and then you'll see a whole different dimension of the practice, and you'll say someone, you'll see someone who goes, oh, well, it's actually drunken style, they'll drink something, they'll be all crazy and they'll say the same thing drunk or something like that, and then you'll see something amazing. But everything that they teach you is to expand your awareness and give you a greater strength in your core practices. It's not to confuse you into going into other practices. So if you're like, oh, well, I saw this one teacher and now I'm gonna go do what they do. I'm so, I saw something cool in the structure that Sambara let them come in and now I'm gonna go outside of that and do my own thing and follow their thing. If you do that, then you'll be breaking etiquette and you'll be not putting your focus in the practices of this dojo, the techniques that you really need to develop yourself in to get high enough. And then once you're high enough, and you can go into Samadhi every time that you sit in meditation, then anything that you do is enlightenment. So you can go, oh, okay, I can do all of this. Now I'm going to pull out the marijuana. I can smoke marijuana and go into Samadhi, or something like that, right? it, my bodhicitta becomes powerful. So, once you're enlightened, then all ways are enlightenment. But before you're a master in your craft, don't get confused. I've got to say this again and again, because even advanced students have gotten very confused. And I'm like, well I want to be enlightened but it's not happening. What else can I get? So Shiva, tell me something. Tell me something. You know, it's like you're gonna grasp for anything else. Grasping towards the left and the right is grasping the wrong way. You got to actually, advanced students, you got everything that you need for enlightenment Within you right so you got you got the empowerment you got the practice so it's like that's what you should do And if you're if you're running around left and right and there's probably some confusion going on although Every enlightened teacher or even not enlightened teachers every direct student of Rama There there's truth and power and light in them and you can see amazing powerful things that are helpful It's just that you can't have an attention that splits You have to have unity going in the right direction Yeah, I mean there are other enlightened teachings than what I teach.

0:39:34
What?

0:39:35
Yeah, there are other ways. There have been other enlightened beings who have taught other enlightened teachings that work. Yeah, so like, you know, there could be some guru, or as we say guru, out there in India who said, just have devotion, and people had devotion and they became enlightened. It could be, you know, some Taoist who said, smoke this, and you smoke it and you become enlightened. There are all sorts of ways to enlightenment. So what I'm teaching is not the only way. And, you know, some of the guest teachers might have another way. You want to dig a well and get some water? You've got to dig deep. You can't start just digging everywhere. Digging over here, over there. So I have to repeat this again and again. You guys have to have the right etiquette in the dojo. And you also can't get confused in the dojo. Otherwise, it would be dysfunctional and it wouldn't help. So I want this to be functional, but you have to do your part. You have to be focused on your disciplines to get yourself higher and not confused, to be able to take the amazing abilities and experiences of these teachers and give you greater perspective and make your meditation and your fundamental practices in the dojo stronger. So they can inspire, you can see awesome dimensions that come through them. Like Savitri ST1, she starts talking and she's got all these 1980s Rama dimensions coming out. And I'm like, wow, that's cool, because I was there in the 90s. And I always heard of the 80s era, and I was like, wow, that sounds really awesome and fun. And but in the 90s, there was a greater maturation in the sangha organization. But I'm still, you know, stories from the 80s always fascinate me, and I love the light that comes through the ST1s. So, you know, when you get these teachings, they're wonderful and they're magical and they're great and you should use it to inspire you to see deeper amazing dimensions of this school and not to get confused. Don't get Okay, let's see, is that what I always say to you guys? So, that's what I always say to you guys. And don't you guys like my dragon? Isn't it beautiful? I like it. Yeah, so I have to wear, you know, usually my fall colors and my very matte, nothing shiny, because the marketing team says that it's, I have to come off not so shiny. And that if I wear red or something like that, that it's the wrong color, and then it makes me look like a dried up peach pit.

0:43:09
That's what they tell me.

0:43:10
But when it's just you guys, I'm gonna wear all my cool clothes. See, I got a dragon. And it's Halloween, so this is very exciting. So last night, Savitri ST3 got me a chicken, no, no, a duck bahn mi sandwich. Okay, and I was all like, duck bahn mi sandwich. The Kitchen Door, you guys know. Yeah, so, Kitchen Door has a duck bahn mi sandwich. Get it with the jus. It comes with sweet potato fries. You can also ask for the special aioli for dipping. Okay. Bing. Yeah, so, I mean, that's good. We'll see, and then, we have trick or treating. Right, so I'm dressed up like a dragon.

0:44:04
And then, that's my new sandwich.

0:44:07
And there's gonna be people coming to the door. And when they come to the door, they're gonna say trick or treat, and then you're gonna say trick or treat, and then you're gonna say trick.

0:44:28
Just kidding.

0:44:29
So it would be horrible, because it might happen. There might be little kids who want candy really bad, and they'll be coming to your house. And this is kind of like, you really think of it as like a zombie apocalypse moment. Because these little kids, they're carrying COVID-19, and they're just gonna walk up, and they're gonna be all knock, knock. And they're gonna be like, they'll be coughing outside of your door. And it's just like in the zombie movies. You're like, oh my God, there's a zombie outside. And so you can't open the door because they're gonna eat your brains. So you have to be preemptive. So it's like, you gotta eat your death banh mi, and then it makes you strong. I'm teaching you pathway to enlightenment here. Death banh mi makes you strong. And then, Kitchen Door. And then, Kitchen Door is a restaurant in Napa. Napa album, there's a song about it. You meditate on that song while you're eating a death banh mi sandwich, it's a pathway to enlightenment. Okay, and so what you do is, you gotta have like an arsenal of snicker bars. You know like Chewbacca, how he had that sash, that kinda like Miss America sash with lots of artillery rounds on it? Well, you're gonna have snicker bars. You know, you can mix it up. You can have a Twix, Snickers, Three Musketeers. You'll know which one to use, but you gotta be preemptive. Before the zombies come coughing, you're gonna see them walk over. So you gotta, you know, keeping your eyes open, it's mindfulness. Like, you have to be aware all the time, vigilant about what's happening in your mind. And when you see one of the little coughing zombies coming, you, you gotta be ready. You gotta be like, whoosh, whoosh, right? That'll keep them away.

0:46:36
It's true.

0:46:37
Because they think that Snickers are brains. So, it's important. It's a pathway to enlightenment. So I hope you guys all have a wonderful Halloween. Stay vigilant, constant vigilance. And let's see, and if you're an advanced student or a Bowdoin, you should do one of those video recordings of your past life experience, because you need to show them to the new students. Because new students, they might send me recordings where they're like, oh, I was a butterfly and a fairy at the same time. So their scenes might not be really correct. And so if you have a strong, powerful scene, demonstrate how to share it. And then that way, I'll look at the ones that come in, and if I have a bunch of the new students who are coming up, didn't see properly, or just going into egotistical ideas or something like that, I can take your video and say, look, this is a demonstration of proper seeing and proper telling of that scene. So that's a way in the dojo that you're strong and you help. So that's a way in the dojo that you're strong and you help. Okay, thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
