0:00:00
Hello. Thank you, Domoges, and thank you, Lila. That was beautiful and appropriate. Feels like a funeral. So beautiful. Yeah, no, really, we have to mourn the passing of the old Sambara. And I'll tell you all about the new one. New improved model. That was beautiful. It really was like a funeral. We had to explain all the difficulties and troubles that happened to people in my profession. and how we break down, and burn ourselves to the ground. Then it's kind of the end. The end is near. The end is come and gone. It's beautiful. I'm like, oh, this is what it'll be like at my funeral. I'll be there. Good spirit. Once when I was like nine years old, there was a death. Someone at my church died. And I went to the funeral. I didn't really know the guy, but you know, if someone dies at your church, you go to the funeral. There's free food, cookies and things, right? So I go to the funeral and then I'm sitting in the back and eventually my mom goes, you've got to go up and go over and see the guy and look at him and do something. I'm like, oh, okay. So I go up and I look in and I see the guy. Then I'm at a reception later eating more and I'm just way away from all the people, just sitting in the corner. And then someone comes up to to my side and says, you gotta live your life and enjoy it. You can't let, you can't take it for granted. And he puts his hand on my shoulder and I look up at him and it was the guy who was in the coffin.

0:02:40
And I was like, ah!

0:02:41
And then I'm totally freaked out. And then I found out he was his twin brother. So this is

0:02:56
you know, mourning the passing of

0:03:00
the old Sambara for all the trials and tribulations he had to go through. And so that has passed. And as we say, it's a new day and a new way. But I have another funeral joke that I remember. Um, what did Kermit the Frog say at Jim Henson's funeral?

0:03:44
Nothing.

0:03:46
Okay, well, that's what you get from me for funeral jokes. So, I'd like to begin with meditation. So we're going to meditate for one song on the heart. Sit up nice and straight.

0:04:11
And let's begin. the the the So So so the the the the so So, transmission teachers, they do something very, very special. They transmit Shakti energy, spiritual energy,

0:08:38
spiritual consciousness. So it's a very unusual thing, a very special thing. It's the most amazing way to learn spirituality. So, but they, you know, as Domonjeet was telling you, it's difficult work. Most transmission teachers, they don't live long lives. The body can't take it. They either die or they get out of it. Some of the transmission teachers in our lineage do it for a while and they go, oh my gosh, let me get out of this. And then some go all the way. So it's a difficult thing. Now, for most of my students who don't know about my health, I'm very healthy. So I just want to let you know that I'm not a sickly person. So a few years ago, I started having these conditions of falling unconscious. And I would explain it as many of my students at the same time had an intense emotional or negative reaction. They were not being mindful. And because I'm connected to them, supporting them, it became an overload for me. And then I would lose consciousness. So it wasn't anything physical, it was purely dealing with this connection. After some time, through my meditation, my practice, I became stronger and capable of dealing with it. So that became a thing of the past. Then I got more students. And then the same energy that would make me pass out came, but I was strong, so it was okay. But then something else happened, it got more intense. So with the STD5s here in America. Many of them had their reactions and confusions, but I had given them, as soon as they became students, connection. And they, you know, do what people do. They don't honor something. They're messy and, you know, react. And they don't know what they got. So then what happened with my heart is my heart beat really, really, really fast. I was just sitting there, I felt all of their reactions, and then my heart would beat really fast. It was almost like I was struck and in shock. But I was very calm, was able to do deep breathing. I've done Qigong for many years. But my heart wouldn't stop beating extremely fast. So if a heart beats too fast, eventually it goes into cardiac arrest. So I had to go into the ER twice over this. And in the ER, they did all the tests on my heart. I have a perfectly healthy heart. They just didn't know why it was beating so fast.

0:12:47
I'm like, oh, okay. So I'm very healthy. I just wanted you to know that.

0:12:49
Now, let's talk about death. Now, I told you that in this solstice, there was an extremely like really a destructive energy. And the destructive energy was beautiful, but it's destructive, wrathful. So if you can handle that energy properly, then it hurts you. So I have been facing for the past year a lot of intense energy, just toxic energy from dealing with students. And I was following the same path as my teacher. He taught for 20 years, doing this practice of a transmission teacher, and then he died doing it. And I've been doing this for 20 years, over 20 years. Same thing, same practice, and I was heading the same direction. So many of my students had visions. You know, Leela is a very powerful mystic. She's able to see into many dimensions. And she came to me and she's like, You're not going to live much longer. And I said, I know. And then many students, they were like, I had a dream that you're going to die, I have a vision that you're going to die.

0:14:53
And I'm like, okay.

0:14:54
I'm resigned to teach until the end, doing my best for you guys. And then it got pretty intense. So I had this going on for a long time. For a long time, since like 2005, I was going, whoa, this is tough. I was like, wow, this is really, you know, difficult. And I didn't get easier, because I got more students, and then the more advanced your students get, the more they get to the core of the ego that wants to fight. So, it never got easier. So I was always facing this, and I knew that this is the way my teacher When this energy of the solstice came, this supreme energy of destruction, it's still with us, but it hit this peak a little bit after the solstice on the 6th of July. And, you know, I was just feeling, uh, really a lot of intensity. And on the 7th of July, I sat down to meditate. And then I meditated, and then at 10 a.m. I had a liberation, a higher enlightenment. So my teacher used to say, enlightenment isn't some end destination. Enlightenment goes on and on. It gets higher and higher. It never ends. So I had a higher liberation, and it was a liberation from this sentence of death to life. So I guess since 2005, I've been going, Oh my God, I'm going to die doing this. And then after this meditation, I stood up and for the first time I felt life. So our funeral of Sambara is over. The old and this is a new incarnation, a higher liberation. This is a liberation I call whole consciousness. Now to explain what whole consciousness is, I will ask you a question. Who are you? Now, most people will say their name. I'm Joseph. Who are you? And then you start to go through descriptions of self, just like I did this exercise in the Enlightenment workbook. I'm this job. I'm this husband. I'm this father. I'm this son. I'm this whatever you are. This color, whatever. So you start to go through descriptions of the transient world. But then you? Then you come down to me. I'm me. I'm me, myself. Exactly. You are yourself. How are you not yourself? You're yourself. You're an individual self. That's what it comes down most people. Past the descriptions of society, past the descriptions of the world, you're just coming down to, I'm me. I'm an individual self. All beings are individual selves. your friend, your dad, your brother, your sister, a Scotty Dog. You go over to Scotty Dog and say, who are you? It'll look at you and it's all, I'm me. Now give me a treat. So all beings, a frog, a frog is the perception of all beings is that they are a self. They are them, not you. You look at them, you're you, not them. They're separate. Their awareness, their consciousness is separate from us. If they get poked by a pin, it doesn't hurt you. If you get poked, it doesn't hurt them. So we see that we are separate from other beings. Now, when we start advancing in spirituality, we start to meditate and see the self in a deeper way. past the awareness of society, we start to see past the awareness of separativity. And we come to understand the essence of the Self, that the self is an infinite, eternal consciousness. We see this in meditation. When you sit down and meditate and still your mind, when you can stop thought, then the self that's thinking about paying the bills, going to work, the coronavirus. This all goes away when you stop thought. And the individual self goes away. And then there's only, I call it the spiritual experience. Ramana Maharshi, great enlightened saint of India, Arunachala, the mountain in Tiruvannamalai. When he was young, 16, he fell ill and then he was afraid that if he's ill he might die." And he said, If I die, do I die? Who dies? Am I dead if my body dies of illness? And he pondered, and he realized the infinite, eternal self. And he realized that if the physical body dies, that eternal self remains. So that realization is the realization of whole consciousness. Not that there's a separativity of beings, but that there is a whole eternal consciousness. See this is a powerful realization. We start to see that beyond the individual self, there is the self, and the self is eternal. We can see this in meditation. So once you see that the Self is eternal, then you say, Okay, the Self is eternal consciousness. And then you look at someone else and you say, They're an individual Self, just as I'm an individual self. I have individual self that is self unlimited, infinite, eternal consciousness. So, self is infinite consciousness's knowledge of itself It's tremendous to see that. That is to know whole consciousness. That you are not a person who has consciousness. That you are an aspect of consciousness. in a particular, special, unique form. So why don't we see that? Why isn't that the way that we perceive life? Because as indigenous to our being, we are whole consciousness, but we are only aware of a small part of whole consciousness. It's because of thoughts, attachments, desires, fears, interacting with the world, reactions. This forms the ego, a layer of extraneous mental material over your awareness of your true whole consciousness. So then we have to do things. In our school, we do things. We do things like yoga. In our yoga, we do hunting and dreaming. What does a hunter do? A hunter goes to hunt something. They go out to get their prey, to bag a deer or something. So a hunter sets their mind on getting what they need to get. They need to stop the animal. The way we do it, we'll stalk a job. We'll go hunt a job, bag one of those. We will stalk the perfect pair of socks. The right pair of socks can do a lot. Magic and socks. The equinox is the perfect day to celebrate socks. So a hunter goes out and hunts. And we have these practices and forms of attention to go out and hunt things. Hunt down a sale. Hunt down success. Hunt the perfect house, hunt the perfect socks. And finally, the hunter, through perfecting the art of stalking and hunting and attaining that which is outside of themselves, the hunter hunts the self. The self beyond the individual self. The whole consciousness self. The other practice is dreaming. So in our yoga, we dream. We dream of a new business. We dream a business in our imagination. We view something and we dream it, and it comes into being. Or we dream people into our lives, people that can help us, people who are allies. our lives. We dream new creations. We dream of a book we're writing. We dream of the things that make our life better and may appear in our lives. And finally, we dream the dream of self, which is waking from the dream and realizing the eternal consciousness of being. So we dream and dream and dream. Everything is coming from the individual self into creation until we get so strong in this practice that we wake up to the true Self. These are practices that we've got to do. Why don't we just sit there and see the Self, see the true Self, see the eternal Self, There are so many layers of ego.

0:30:48
You have to do things.

0:30:49
You've got to go on this journey from the individual self to the eternal self. All these practices that we do are yogas, stocking, dreaming. Meditation is essential. All of the things that you do. They are ways to bring you to the true Self, the Eternal Self. Now everybody and everything shines with the light of the Eternal Self. It's just that for you to see it, you have to be able to have perfect discernment and discrimination. You might look at some person who's an evil jerk. They might hurt people. They might be nasty. They might be the worst person. But there's something in them that's beautiful. Enlightenment is within them. And to see that, to really truly see that in them, you have to have discernment or an open heart. That's why we practice compassion, to start to open our heart to see the light in other beings. There is a beautiful story of Yogi Ram Saratkumar that Dholmandeep introduced you to. He was with Devaki and they were walking from one of the buildings in the ashram to another and he stopped at a rotting mango. This mango had fallen on the ground and it had rotted. And they had seen it over the past couple of days. It fell and watched it rot. It's just Devaki noticed this thing rotting. And then one day he stops at it and he goes, get that for me. So she does. And then he's like, isn't it horrible? See all that rotten part? And she's like, this part is not rotten. There's one little spot that wasn't rotten. And she goes, yeah, it's not. And then he eats it. Or he has her eat it. I forget. And then, uh, and then it's delicious. So in this whole rotten mango, there's this one spot that is delicious, perfect, perfectly, perfectly ripe. So he was showing her that even in something totally rotten, I think she was having trouble with someone, thinking that the guy was bad, so he showed her through a rotten mango. There's a little sweetness in there. There's enlightenment within all beings and all things. With whole consciousness you see teachers, it's easier to see the light of the true Self within them, because they don't have as many veils. They don't have the extra mind veils covering them. You can see within the light that's within all things. So in my experience, in my liberation, I have come to this seeing of life, a condition of awareness of life that I call whole consciousness. This is to say that when I see you, I see eternity in you, each of you. I look at you and I see you are eternity, and in each of you I see you are eternity. In a blade of grass, I see eternity. Eternity is in all things, and eternity comes in all forms. So I can see a blade of grass, and it's perfect in its transient form, and in its eternal aspect. It's infinite. And so there's enlightenment in a blade of grass. And then I see you. And you're perfect in your transient form. And you are also eternity. You're also enlightenment. You're also whole consciousness, unlimited, infinite. So I have come to this awareness, awareness of whole consciousness, and it is the destination is to be aware of the infinite enlightenment in all things. Now let me tell you how this happened. And I was facing intense, wrathful death energy. I was on a trajectory of difficulty, hardship, and death in my own life. And I used the wrathful energy of this time. I can't say how. I just spiritually used it in my meditation. I transmuted two conditions. my birthday, the equinox. This is when in America we went locked down because of the COVID-19. And I gave a very powerful transformative talk there, and life changed. The world changed. America never saw anything like this, and the minds of people changed. And we entered a transit, and we're still in the transit, a change, a spiritual time of change, and also a physical time of change. Now, on my birthday I started going into very high states of mind, very ecstatic states. I started to go into a condition where—it's what Leela was talking about— imagine every atom in the universe exploding into light and bliss. And imagine that explosion happening again and again. Now that's a very intense thing, but this became my consciousness. It's a consciousness of awareness of all things, and at the essence of all things, there's an explosion, an expansion, and an expansion into light and ecstasy. So I've been experiencing Samadhi for many years, and a higher and higher experience of Samadhi, but this one was ultimate. And in this experience I was very high. That's why I say I'm higher than a ladder, higher than a kite. And I want to show you a picture, a picture of a great enlightened Indian saint, also a transmission teacher. So Ramakrishna in this picture is what I call higher than a ladder. high ecstatic state of Samadhi. And I recognized this state. And I felt this state of ecstasy during the equinox and solstice. So it would be funny to me too because I would sit in my room, meditate, come out of meditation, and I felt like this. And then I'd walk into the kitchen and see a couple people in the Dharma Villa, and they'd say, how are you? And I'd say, okay. And then sometimes I would tell them, I'm super ecstatic, I'm higher than a ladder. I'm like, it's not describable. But because of my training, I'm functional. But sometimes I go higher than a ladder and I'm kind of like this. Okay, we can turn it back to me. So if you saw me doing that, that's normal. That's normal for us. But then sometimes there's the wrathful form of ecstasy, and it's beautiful. I, too, for the first six years, just yelled at my students. And I've been so very polite to my new students, mostly.

0:43:12
Very polite.

0:43:13
But I got a bit of wrathfulness in me. And it's very powerful, but it's scary and it's intense. And then you could have an ego reaction and say, I disagree. Things like that, you know? So, so far I've been very polite. Things like that, you know. So far I've been very polite, mostly. But I have a very strong wrathful power. It's a power, an ecstatic power of the Dharma to, let's say, yell at you about something or give you a hard time about something or show you something that's difficult. There's a great blessing and power in this wrathful teaching. For example, something very beautiful. I was meeting with some advanced students. One student had gotten angry and yelled at him at the top of my lungs. And I gave him the hardest time about an intense karma that he had. And then I yelled at him and yelled at him. Now, a normal person would say, I'm going to yell back. That's what an ego does, right? So I'm pushing his red button and he was able to take it, listen, not react, accept the blessing and then right there and then he resolved the karma. The karma went away and then he was filled with gold light. You know how you see gold light around me? He was filled with gold light because he was able to accept a very powerful teaching. In the same meeting, there was another advanced student there. this wrathful teaching for the longest time and I yelled at him, also screaming at the top of my lungs. And I stood up and I said, I was yelling at him about his karma, something blocking him from powers, previous powers of past lives. And then he stood up, and when he stood up, there was this breakthrough. And this power that he had from past lives suddenly came into his being. And he was a great master in past lives, but in this lifetime he just hasn't brought it out. This brought it out. Something in him woke up and he's the first one to solve that koan because I've been giving this koan sometimes for a while. So that was beautiful to see. So amazing things come from the wrathful teachings. So they're not all bad, you know. If I yell at you or give you a hard time, be open to it. Try not to react. See what I'm pointing out. I had this experience of being very, very, very, very high. When the solstice came, on fusion of energy. So like, again, imagine every atom in the universe, and imagine every atom in the universe fusing. So as we know in physics, if you split the atom, there's a lot of energy, but if you fuse two atoms, there's much more energy. So this was over the top. I was like, I had gone through, you know, three months of this sahaja state of the highest ecstasy. And then I would sit for a few hours and I'd be gone. Or I would teach. I did some teachings where I wasn't there. I'd come back and people would be like, well that was an intense teaching. And I'd be like, I say? What happened? So I had just true expressions, unfiltered, and I was yelling at people, all these amazing things happened. And then, on Tuesday, the 7th of July, at the exploding atoms of the universe and all the imploding atoms happened at the same time. They came into a perfect union, and in that union there was a complete peace. That recognition of the union and that peace was my liberation, and it was very beautiful. I felt a beautiful contentment and peace. Then when I stood up from my altar, I recognized for the first time in many years that I'm not on a path to death for teaching, that I felt life and alive, and that I felt healthy and balanced and just wonderful, wonderful and beyond the entrapments of the transmission teacher. This happens. So it's a very high liberation. So I am a transmission teacher. I'm just better at it now. So, there's actually now much, much, much, much greater power, light, and love in the teachings. Let me explain a paradigm. So, as a transmission teacher, the way that I was taught, the way that my teacher did and the transmission teachers in my lineage, we use, let's say, lines of energy or tension that go to each student. So, for each of my students, when I accept you as a student, I have a line of energy going from my energy body to your energy body. I transmit teachings. I transmit Shakti. It's Kundalini energy, spiritually refined energy, and then when it is in an active form going out, it's called Shakti. And Shakti takes a particular form and it has a certain... there's many, many, many different structures and they can convey teachings of awareness, spiritual awareness. So this is what I would do for all of my students at all times. The connection doesn't go away. And the connection is there when you're having your hardest time. So when you're having your hardest time, that's when you need to open up the most to your spiritual connection with your teacher. Because then you'll realize and like to aid to you during that difficulty. So, this is, it takes a lot of energy and attention going, all the time. So, this is what I can do, you know, I can't hold it all in my first attention mind, I hold it all in my second attention, but I do it, and I do it really well. So, my analogy to this is teaching karate. Let's say I had a dojo full of all of you, right? And I say, you need to learn, so I'm going to, you know, spend energy working with you, teaching you, you know, here, you gotta block this punch, you know, or come on, spar with me, and I spend energy with you. But I do that with everybody in the dojo. And I have to push you so that you learn, so that you become stronger. I have to be like, no, you have to walk like this. And it takes lots of energy. I'm going around with everybody in the dojo doing the punching and the kicking. So that is exhausting. I mean, I can do it because I'm a strong martial artist. I'm capable. And so that's what I do. And that's how I teach you and that's how you get better. So, that is my analogy of the linear way that I was teaching, and how my teacher taught and how other transmission teachers that I've whole consciousness realization, I would say that all of these little lines, they're still there, but there's this sphere of consciousness, of light, around all of these lines being in the sphere, all of the teachings that I gave through the line, they happen almost automatically and much more powerfully. I recognize that when you're having a hard time or when I'm teaching you something, that there's just a tremendous amount of love and light and compassion and that through the line it automatically works. And it automatically works much much stronger than before. So it's a wonderful thing because it became what we call Wu Wei for me. Now some of you have seen our practices of Wu Wei Do. It's a way of emptiness, you can call it. So that means that you use less energy, or no energy they say, push you. And they would push you really hard with their hand, and then you would relax and just turn your waist. And then the person who's pushing has a certain kind of force. You're relaxing, you know, this is demonstrated a lot in martial arts. You can see advanced martial artists who can knock someone down without touching them, things like that. And this is what we call, you know, like mastery. You don't have to go over and karate punch someone really, really, really hard. You can just go like this. And so soft, and the same effect, the person falls. And there's actually a greater power to being soft. So I've gotten to this awareness and teaching where I don't have to do those lines that are so taxing on the physical body, on the aura. But I do those lines, but I do them very simply. Now, in Wu Wei Do, there's tiny little things that I do. So I do things, tiny little things, but they make powerful things happen. Powerful things happen. So there is a greater power and a greater awareness. And, as Lela was talking about at the end, you have to look into it. You have to open up to it. You have to get out of self and align yourself with a greater power. So we're changing things, it's not the old way. The old way was pretty good, but this is a new way. There's a greater power, greater light that you can access. I want you to be open to it so that you can gain more from it. If you see it, voila. There's a treasure chest of gold there, you don't see it, you walk past it. There's a treasure chest of gold. It used to be a little bit of gold, now it's a hundred times more gold. So this is a time to really reflect, be mindful of this opportunity. to Sambara. And then let the light and power come into your life. And the hard thing that you're going through, and the bad state that you're in, and the fear that you have, and then confusion and all that, if you open your mind to Sambara, then it will solve it. It will show you light and then anything that you're facing you'll be able to have clarity and be able to handle it the best and have a positive and bright state of mind. This is the new way. So I'd like you to look at my eyes. Look me in my eyes. So we're gonna sit for one song, soft focus on the third eye, and then just look to my eyes. Okay, let's begin.

1:02:01
Thank you. so so The. The. so so The. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Very nice. So I have a new city, a new expression of enlightenment, a new way, and it is an infinitely greater way. Enlightenment goes on and on. I've reached a new level and a new expression. It is something that, for me, is the greatest peace and the way of life

1:04:20
and for you a tremendous aid. I'm going to send you a picture. It's a picture I took last evening. I went to the beach and did a selfie. And I want to send you this picture. Do your meditation, whatever your meditation is. Do your meditation and then take out this picture and meditate on it for at least one song. And in the picture, again, look into my eyes. I want you to start to create the proper connection with me. Back when I was you know the line teacher, the line transmitter, looking in the eyes would be death to me. It would be so painful. But now I'm like transformed and able to do this. So I want you to look into my eyes, and I want you to develop that more powerful connection. And please, when you have a hard time, focus on that connection. that will bring you peace and success. All right, wonderful. Thank you for tuning in today. All right, wonderful. Thank you for tuning in today. Thank you, Dalmaji. Thank you, Leela. Thank you all. Be well.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
