0:00:00
Hello everyone. Okay, welcome. Welcome to your computer. With me on it. Okay, we're going to have a wonderful day that we can be grateful for, and we'll begin with meditation. So we'll sit for one song, and we'll focus on heart chakra. Nice and free. Let's begin.

0:00:30
So the the the the the the the the the the the so Oh, so the the the the the the the Okay, so today I would like to continue with the Bodhidharma teaching on be grateful to everyone.

0:04:55
So, gratitude is a powerful way to transform adverse conditions into the pathway of awakening. when you can face life, grateful, and face death, grateful, the grateful dead, then you can change things that many people experience now during the coronavirus time. So it's important to look at our lives and to see where we can have gratitude, because gratitude changes everything. Now, gratitude is one of the dimensions of bodhicitta. And it's actually a really wonderful aspect of bodhicitta. So, as we've learned in the beginning of bodhicitta, that bodhicitta is two things. It's awareness and action. So awareness is, oh, I see that someone has suffered. And then, action. You have an intention, tonglen, taking in something. An intention to do something to help their suffering. So awareness, we've always started off with, have a concern. You know, it's like a, hmm, that person looks sad. And then you go, huh, so I'm becoming aware that they're having a hard time. You start to sympathize with them. You have empathy for them. You start to go, hmm, I see, they're sad. So, so it's actually kind of like a funny thing because you're looking for sadness and badness and suffering. You have to become aware that someone's suffering. And then you do your taking and sending, you start practicing the yoga of compassion. And But this one is interesting, gratitude. Because gratitude for everyone is the same thing as awareness of suffering, but it's just the happy version. So if you are grateful to everyone, you look at someone, instead of seeing them having a hard time, you look at them and you're like, wow, I'm so grateful for this person because they did this and this and this and this. Or they just are. And then your gratitude is the awareness. It's the happy side versus the, oh, poor you, now I'm going to do something. It's the motivation of wow, I'm so grateful, I'm going to do something. So when you have gratitude for everyone, then compassion flows. It's a natural outcome. So that's why this is such an important teaching. It's wonderful. When you have gratitude, then it changes your whole life. Gratitude gives you perspective on what really matters. When you have gratitude, you could look at something that you used to say, oh, that was bad, I didn't like it. And then you look at it and say, wow, it's beautiful. All of life is beautiful. That's why gratitude is so important to understand as a practice in the yoga of compassion. Because everything that is against, bad, gratitude transforms into good. I had was complaining about her job. So she was working as an executive assistant and very upset with her work, her workload. She's just like, oh, this is meaningless work and I'm totally stressed out and I'm always pressured and oh, my job is so horrible. So I told her, you know, to learn computer programming so that you can have it there. And then the coronavirus lockdown, quarantine, came. And she saw that a lot of people at her office got fired, but her boss needed her. So she stayed, and she had even more work to do because people got fired. And then she was so happy. She was grateful for her job because she saw other people got fired. Many people lost their jobs. Many more will lose their jobs. So she was complaining for weeks about the difficulties and the things she didn't like. And then all of a sudden, what happened? She decided to have a gratitude in her head. That the work didn't get easier, it didn't get more fun. She just decided, she just realized she should be grateful. And she should be, and so should you. You're like, ooh, but why should I be grateful. Everything bad is happening to me all at once. So that's the thing. Even in adverse conditions, you've got to look for the things that you are grateful for. So when everything's bad, you have to say, actually, there's a lot of really good things. There's a lot of wonderfully good things. So you've got to look through and say, all right, what is it? You know, like, when you're just looking at bad stuff, then you don't have a good perspective. When you're just looking at all the negative stuff, then your state of mind and your consciousness to quote a really wonderful enlightened teacher, if you're looking around and all you see is shit, then your head is definitely stuck up your ass. So then you have gratitude, and it opens your mind. I think that was from the Vedas, or the Upanishads. Or leave conch shells. So yeah, so you have to look around and even when things seem bad and difficult and horrible,

0:12:36
they're not.

0:12:37
Things are wonderful. You've got to look at what in your life is good right now? What are you grateful for? And then you can go from being in quarantine to opening your mind and seeing life, love, happiness, enlightenment. It's important. And you know, it's like, what is it for you? Like, you know, it might be you have a pet. It might be that you have a, you know, a good meal. It might be that you have toilet paper finally. So, you gotta, you gotta look for those things and then, and look at the small things too, you know, I walk outside, look up at the sky, see the sun, the hills, the trees, I hear the birds. You have to look at just that. Look at the sky, the clouds. Be grateful for breathing. Be grateful for the small things, the things that are innate to being alive. I have a lot of gratitude for my legs. I mean, they've supported me for many years. I have gratitude for my arms. They've been by my side since the beginning. I have gratitude for my fingers. I can always count on them. Just find places and ways to be grateful. Gratitude is a way that you look at life. You can look at life and just be like, hmm, everything I don't like. But then you can look at life and say, hmm, what's the good? Where's the good? Then you're looking for that which your spirit appreciates, that which is divine. And what you focus on, or Jesus said, seek and ye shall find. So if you're seeking what's good and where's the divine in my life, then you have to be grateful for the big things in life. Like, significant things. Like, um, your health, hopefully. Um, family, friends, job. These are big things in your life. Hopefully job. So it's like, we're facing a difficult time, but for the health that you do have, for the family and friends and things that you have in your life, you have to be, you really should like reflect on gratitude. And because those are strong influences on your life. So you should be very, very, very grateful. Be grateful to everyone. You should also be grateful for the Sangha and for the teachings of Dharma. You should be grateful for enlightenment because when you're grateful for your spiritual practice, your spiritual community, then you're actually taking a very difficult time and it's making your spirit higher, it elevates you. So, spiritual practice, your meditation, your mindfulness, your bodhisitta, being grateful for these practices is very important. Padmasambhava, he was saying, oh, he's like, I feel so much compassion, so sorry for beings that don't have the techniques, the methods of Dharma. Because they don't know, they can't do anything, they're stuck. But when you have a sangha, you have the teachings, you can do something. You can transcend a stuck state of mind and go to a higher condition of awareness. You should definitely take advantage of and have gratitude for your opportunities. So, not everybody has opportunity. And when you have spiritual opportunity, then it's time to take advantage of it. If you don't have spiritual opportunity, you're completely stuck. You don't learn anything. You're just, I'm going through whatever karma. difficult, hardship, ups, downs, you're a slave to samsara. But when you have spiritual opportunities, you find one spiritual book that gives you insight. You have a teacher, you have a community. These things are all powerful opportunities, doorways to higher awareness, to spiritual balance, liberation from suffering, if you use it. If you're grateful for these opportunities, then you're going to grow. Gratitude is growth. You grow, your awareness grows, and it's just so easy to then bring help and compassion to others. So, appreciate the opportunities that you have, even if they're difficult. You go to a karate dojo and you're learning and someone's like sparring against you and you're like, oh, she hurt me and oh, he's mean, oh my gosh, his foot is over here. You know, so it's like, it's difficult. Going to martial arts is not supposed to be something that's easy. It's not like, oh, I'm going to relax and just let things flow. You're facing intense energy and learning defense and offense. So, it's not something that's supposed to be easy, it's something that makes you strong and powerful. So, a lot of my students are learning computer programming. And that is like going to a, getting a black belt. You know, it's not an easy thing.

0:20:07
It's difficult.

0:20:08
And so many sides of the self come up that want to stop you. You start doing it, now, oh, it makes a little sense to give it a try. And then, oh, it's getting hard.

0:20:18
Oh, I'm falling behind.

0:20:20
I find that I am, you know, drawn to something else. Maybe photography. It's a big career path in that. You know, or something like that. You just start saying, oh, I have different ideas.

0:20:31
Oh, that's not for me.

0:20:33
Or I'm lazy. Oh, I fell behind because I got lazy. I got disinterested. I got depressed. You need to have gratitude. You need to take it seriously. Gratitude gets you to sober up. Gratitude gets you focused. I know like Parvati, America. She got taught by Mandala. Mandala is a liberated woman and an expert in technology. And she was grateful for this opportunity to learn technology in this amazing school. Learning technology, spirituality, yoga is something that she just was grateful for. And then she had an amazing career. She became the CTO of of a wonderful Silicon Valley company and succeeded in amazing ways, both financially and also in yoga, as a yogi. So you can do great, and starting with gratitude is very I mean, if you go to like a university or a boot camp or something, you pay a lot of money for these skills that we're teaching. And the question is, do you want to work? Are you grateful for it? If you're like, no, well, some virus comes in, I don't make enough money, or I got fired because I'm doing some job that goes nowhere in the next economy. And you're like, you know what? I don't know. I'll just like binge watch something on Netflix. Which is something you shouldn't do. If you're binge watching more than once a week, but you don't have enough going on. Be grateful for the opportunity of learning tech at Golden State Institute of Technology, our school, because, you know, we might be at a very weird time. Actually, we are at a very weird time. Actually, we are at a very weird time. We might be going into a huge recession, much worse than 2008. And actually, the way that our businesses work might change drastically. Like right now, they're shut down. And when they open up, they have to open up different. So, things might be changing. This might be a big time of change.

0:24:08
Probably.

0:24:10
We're probably going to go into a big recession that's going to be very financially difficult. Now, in 2008, 2009, in our Sangha, we had 100% employment because everyone was in technology. Now, because we've had Golden State open for a while, but a lot of students were kind of like, hmm. And then a lot of people aren't doing well. It depends what you want to do. You want to suffer and have a hard time and go and fulfill your dream or do something smart. And then I come back to martial arts. You're like, I kind of want to be an artist. And I'm like, okay. So, martial arts, you know, you might have all your ideas of how to fight. And if I get into a fight, I'll do this. But if you go into a dojo and you try to do that, a black belt will beat you. So when you have your opinion on stuff, don't go to the dojo. Or go to the dojo and go be selfless and learn something more powerful than your opinion or what you kind of like. I like, I kind of made up my own tai chi. I just go like this. I'm sure it's going to work in a fight. Yeah, so be grateful for your opportunities. If it's a dojo where you have an intense sensei, guess what? You get stronger by surviving in that dojo. You do. Like if you can stay in a dojo where the sensei gives you a seriously hard workout, totally pushes you, makes you face difficult things, then you should be grateful for every second of it. Because that sensei is helping you. Maybe saving your life, teaching you skills. That if someday something happens, you're ready for it. So if it's a hard experience you have to say, you have to ask, is this good? Is this like if I succeeded in this what would my life be like? And I'm suggesting for Right Livelihood, for job yoga, that if you don't already have a solid career where you're making a good living, that you better really take learning tech seriously. Because the way that businesses are changing now, a lot of things are going online. So it used to be there was this growth sector in tech. It might become an even more integrated and major aspect of our economy, because everyone's going on, people who couldn't, you know, who used to do different things in the physical, they're trying to get, how do we do this online? How do we do this through technology? So we might be working through a greater connection of services through the internet, and in a different way than it's been. The way that it's been has been very closely related to the old economy that didn't work when the virus came out. So this virus might wake people up to new innovations, which is all gonna be, if you're a computer programmer, that the economy can grow. It's just an obvious thing. We can't do certain things physically. So we have to start looking online. The technology is gonna be able to bring more services. Am I talking about this too much? So I know some of you already have jobs, some of you are not learning tech, it's okay, but I'm trying to help. I have over 100 students who don't have good jobs, who lost their jobs, who don't know, they're just not doing anything that makes any sense. And I'm like, I just wanna make sure that I'm offering, we're giving you a free education from Silicon Valley experts that everybody in the US is a very successful computer programmer, and you can too. And instead of being defensive and being like, I don't know if I want to do this, you need to sober up and say, well, is my finger painting art career going to make sense? Or actually maybe I better get real about life, develop myself, see that other people are succeeding where everybody else is failing, and follow the success that is taught in this school, and then muzzles off. Yeah, so take advantage of the opportunities. I had this joke, I keep telling it over and over, I'm not going to tell it again, except for I'm going to summarize it. So there's this guy on top of his house because there's a big flood, and then a boat comes over and someone's like, hey, I can help you. And he's like, no, no, no, because I'm praying to God. God's going to save me. He goes away. Another boat comes over, he's like, oh, yeah, no, no, I'm praying to God. God's gonna save me. I don't want your boat. And then a helicopter comes over and he's like, no, no, no, no, it's cool. God's got me. Then the helicopter goes away. They drown. Goes to heaven. He says, God, why didn't you help me? I did. I sent you two boats and a helicopter. If you don't take your opportunities, because of your weird ideas, that God's gonna help you and your weird career is gonna make any sense, then, what's that thing I said? Muzzle talk. Take your opportunities seriously.

0:30:37
It's important.

0:30:38
One of the wonderful things that we have in our school is a way to develop ourselves through work.

0:30:41
I know a lot of spiritual people just think, should we just think things and read books? And one of the great things that we do here is we actually do things. And that creates a balance. If you're just in your head thinking, oh I think of this, I'll say prove it. Show me something powerful that comes out of that. Show me. So take it seriously. Opportunities. And when everything looks really, really, really, really bad and you're like, oh, it's too difficult. Because it's going to be difficult to learn computer programming. You have to work really hard. It's like getting a black belt. You have to really focus on it. You have to practice a lot. You got to stop, you know, you got to get out of your depression and your confusion. And you have to focus on this thing like it actually matters, which it does. And if you do it, something happens. You change. You grow. You get success from it. But if you don't do it, then you don't break out of your current situation, your current karma. So when you have very difficult times, you have to work really hard, but you also need to look for what's good. You might look at having me tell you, learn technology and get a great job so that the rest of your life can be okay instead of suffering and stress. You might look at that as, oh, that's difficult for me. And if you do look at it that way, then be grateful for that. Look for gratitude in things. I remember one time I was in Hungary, and I was speaking with people, having one-on-ones. That's what I do in Budapest. And this guy comes over to me and we're talking and there were things in my talk, I don't remember what I was talking about, but it triggered for him ideas of gratitude. And so he's like, even in hardships and difficulties, he's like, from your teaching, I saw that's true. I had a difficult time, and I had a lot of gratitude at this one moment. So he was a child during the Bosnian War. And, you know, on the last year of the war, I think it was 95 or something like that, he, you know, his family had been going through this war. They were very poor. They had very, like, little food to eat and basically it was kind of like eating gruel every day and not even enough so it's like oh but on the last year of the war his mother had been kind of planning and trying and doing all these things so she got ingredients to be able to make bake him a cake birthday cake so it was his tenth birthday and he's just eating kind of gruel every day, and not enough. They were very hungry, very few resources. And then on his birthday, his mother baked him a cake. She got like sugar somehow, right? Like somehow she had been spending like all this time trying to get these things together. Very, very limited resources. And then he ate. Yeah, and then the family had a cake and then everyone got a slice and he was like, wow! Like, so happy. He was grateful. So he's grateful for his mother to do all that work, which is, that's classic Bonicita. So he's very grateful. And then he was very happy because of his gratitude and because the cake was pretty

0:35:53
good.

0:35:54
Actually, he said the cake was pretty bad. But at the time, what are you going to eat? You know, whatever cake you get, you're going to get. And then he ate everyone, everyone like, like his older brother and his dad and his mom and his older sister, they just ate the cake. They like inhaled it. And he like ate half of the cake. And he was just like, hmm. He's like, you know, next door, at the house next door, there was this other little kid. So he turned 10 that day, but there was this kid who was like a five-year-old. And they didn't like play together, because who plays together while there's a war going on? But they didn't play together or anything. But he just, you know, sometimes would look out the window and see the kid, maybe in his house or in the garden or something. And he's all, hmm. He's like, they probably eat the same gruel that we eat every night and probably don't

0:37:08
have a cake.

0:37:12
you know, maybe, yeah, like his mom, his mother had to tell, oh, like how, the story of how she got the ingredients. Like it was like some, it wasn't easy. And then, then he was like, I'm gonna give, he ate half his cake and was really happy about it, and was really grateful to his mother and had a really good time. But he's like, I'm gonna give the other half to the kid. So he brought over a plate with a half-eaten piece of cake, offered it to the kid, and guess what? Kid was happy. So this is a beautiful thing. This is how, when you're grateful for something, you can bring compassion to others. When you have gratitude, you're able to bring happiness, joy, and goodness to others. If you're unhappy, then you're stuck in yourself. You're probably not going to be nice to other people, but when you're jolly and bright, you can help other people. When you're grateful, opens your attention. And then compassion, it's very easy for compassion to flow through you. So even in hard times, be grateful and follow gratefulness. And when you have gratitude for others, then you can foster bodhicitta from that. And we have to do that. But I love this story. Like, you know, this is the war, you know, it's like the dog days of the war. It's like the worst part, where they've been suffering and poor and struggling for so long. And he finds a moment for gratitude. And also, the wonderful thing is that that inspired him to share it. This is what we must do. So gratitude, it's in the moment. Gratitude exists now here in this moment. It's not somewhere else. Well, if somebody gave me a whole bunch of money then I'll be grateful. Right? No. Not that. Gratitude is being aware of divinity in your life, the wonderful things that life has given you, that it's just here, right now. It doesn't matter what happened before, bad things happened. It doesn't matter what might happen in the future, bad things will happen.

0:40:39
It is now.

0:40:40
Gratitude is now. So, what do we do? We have to recognize, we have to put our attention, our focus on what's happening now, how can we have gratitude? Gratitude right now, in this moment, this is what gratitude is. You know, Buddha had a story, it's in the Enlightenment workbook. Some guys walk in around, a tiger starts chasing him, he's running from the tiger. The only way to get away is jumping off a cliff. Then he's falling down the cliff, but he grabs a root of a tree or something. And then below him is another tiger. So tiger up, tiger down. So he's like, I'd use this hanging there. And then there's the little mice that are eating the root, and they're going to like eventually eat through it. He's going to fall down. I have a different idea. He can fall down and instead of hitting the ground and being eaten by a tiger, he might land on the tiger and be like, ah, thanks. Anyway, he's stuck there on the roof, tiger above, tiger below, about to fall off, and then he sees these strawberries that are growing. And he says, strawberries! And he tries the strawberries, he's all, they're so sweet. And he's grateful for his experience of that beautiful thing. So gratitude is in the moment, and it's right now. What are you grateful for? And it's a shift of attention. It's not, oh my God, that was horrible. Oh, this is going to be horrible. Oh, my current situation where I'm hanging on a root of a tree. Like, no. Enjoy. Be grateful for the good things that exist at this moment. You could just be worried about this and what happened before, what's going to happen. Or, look, there's a strawberry. So, speaking Speaking of strawberries, so I recently read an article about a fruit farmer in California. And this fruit farmer was serving like 90 percent restaurants with fruit, everything from apples, strawberries, and all sorts of things. Lots of apples. And the fruit farmer had a very, has a very big piece of land, and they made tons of fruit. And then when the coronavirus lockdown came, all the restaurants that would buy the fruits said, we're out of business. And then the farmer had harvested tons of apples and strawberries and peaches and had nothing to do with them. Like, I can't do anything with them, did not have logistics to send them to supermarkets or anything like that. So one day the farmer was looking at like all of these stores of fresh fruit and then the farmer said, okay, I've just learned for sure, we have no market to sell this in. And so we're going to have to let it rot, destroy it. We can throw the apples out over the field, have the tractors go over it, to squash this giant storage, because they have this giant storage of them. Squash them down into the dirt, at least it'll make richer soil, and we're just going to destroy it. And then there was this one Mexican farm worker, and he said, well, he's like, we could do that, or he said, you know, the church has a food bank. And, you know, we can give some of it to the food bank. Like, there's a lot of people who actually don't have food. And then so the farmer said, oh, yeah, I, you know, I've gone to church a few times. And he had some gratitude for the priest and for the community so he's like yeah that would be a nice thing to do so you know he had to spend some money to get his trucks to bring a bunch of fruit over to the food bank because his farm was a little bit outside of the city and it's not even a city so what would we call it in Europe? A village.

0:46:03
Okay.

0:46:04
In America, we would call it nothing. So he brings it over to the food bank and then the pastor's like, oh, thank you so much, it's very great. And many people got a lot of fresh fruit and it was really beautiful. Now here's the thing about food banks, they're networked, they know each other. They know who's got what, and then they actually like work together. And so the pastor connected with food banks in Los Angeles and San Diego and San Francisco and Sacramento, and then they're like, hey, we got a bunch of fresh fruit. And then the next, oh yeah, and then the next day, a whole bunch of trucks showed up to gather as much fresh fruit as they could to bring it back to the food banks in these big cities. And then the farmer was like, yeah. So he was grateful for it. He was like, sure, come, otherwise this stuff's all gonna rot. And I actually have to do work to get rid of it. And then they took things, and then he just saw how grateful other people were. So he had some gratitude, and he helped other people who had gratitude, feeding the local families. And then all of a sudden, these food banks from other major cities come in, they take some of the food, and they get gratitude.

0:47:46
So it's very beautiful.

0:47:47
And,

0:47:48
this one

0:47:50
LA company came up with this giant truck, you know, like a big semi. And, giant truck, you know, like a big semi. And the logistics company, the CEO said, we'll take a lot for the food banks, but this is perishable, so that's enough for them. But then we can take more and drop it off at supermarkets. So this logistics company had a connection to supermarkets and was able to not only take enough for all the food banks, but he had enough more to actually sell. So they created a little revenue model of, hey, if you can make enough to feed the people who are poor and also deliver it to the supermarkets, he said I'll be your logistics for that. So the farmer was very upset because he was losing so much money, but he was able to break even by creating a new revenue model. And I bet you someday when he gets back to delivering for his restaurants, this for stores will continue and grow. So this is how, gratitude and the compassion that comes from, I'm grateful something that I give, it grows, it grows and it reflects and it refracts. And it makes everything better or higher. So I would like to do for you, do for me, the transmission, the transmission a mind training slogan, teaching, of a very simple statement. Be grateful to everyone. So this is an esoteric teaching. You're going to focus on the heart and have a very light focus gazing towards me. And just relax. Don't worry about thinking. The esoteric teachings are things that you don't have to think about. You don't have to think, am I getting it? Am I there? What's supposed to happen? Just relax a little bit and don't worry. And if you have thoughts, don't worry. In the esoteric transmission, I impart something to you. But it's not anything that you have to understand. It's just something that we're present for. So sit up nice and straight. We're going to bring our focus to the heart chakra. And then you're going to just look towards me we're gonna listen to one song and then the music just be relaxed and I'll give you the transmission

0:51:55
okay let's begin Thank you. so so so the Very nice. So we want to not only have gratitude for our lives, but we want to engender gratitude for others.

0:56:54
So if you're a good bodhicitta yogi, you'll look at your life and say, Ah, I'm grateful for so many things. And because of your gratitude, then you'll be in the play of life, of seeing the compassion of others, the gratitude of others, and the compassion of others create more dharma, more light, But we not only seek to have gratitude and compassion driven from that gratitude, but we want to share gratitude. We want to plant seeds of gratitude. We want to give others gratitude. There was a story I heard once. It's kind of a random story. There was this blind man sitting on the corner of the street or something and had a hat out in front of him and there was a sign that said, I'm blind, please give me money. And then people would go by for coins once in a while. And then there was some, I think some priest or something like that comes by and and changes his sign. The priest's act was just to change the sign and it said, it's a beautiful day, cherish that you can see it. And then people instead of walking by going, um, I feel sorry for this guy, I'm going to put on some coins. They were all, yeah, it's a beautiful day. And then cherish it, you can see it. And then they're like, oh, it is a beautiful day. Oh, I should cherish it. Oh, and this poor guy is fine, he can't see what he just pointed out to me. So this priest engendered this great change and just feel sorry for me. I'm in a hardship to be grateful. And then I think that increased his revenue by 32%, it moved the needle, and then he went up for the online marketing. Now he's publicly traded. So we want to be able to share the way. We want to make sure that we're grateful for our lives and we're able to deal with hardship and transform adversity. We want to do the same for others. I want to challenge you. I want to give you an assignment for this week. And I want you to put this teaching into practice. I want you to say, I am grateful. And look at what you are grateful for. Like right now, we're still at the, you know, difficult times of the coronavirus and all sorts of hardships. But I want you to look at what you are grateful for and I want you to write it down Not only that you're grateful, but I want you to Practice compassion from that gratitude So if you're grateful for your dog, right? Then you say I'm really grateful that I have my little pet and it and that makes me happy. And if my pet wasn't here, I'd feel not as good. I'm grateful that my pet is there. And then you say, well, from that feeling of gratitude, what can I do to have compassion for my pet? Then you might brush them or walk them or give them a special meal or something. But I want you all to submit to me by this same time next week a consideration, a little story, like just how Tukey and Ra and Leila gave stories, beautiful, powerful stories of them being moved by compassion, facing difficulty. It wasn't the coronavirus, but whatever difficulty they faced, and being moved by gratitude to have compassion. I want you to follow their example and write a little experience, like have an experience, like reflect every day on what you're grateful for. And then when you are grateful, look for where you can use your gratitude to have compassion for someone. Maybe it's calling a friend, a relative. But bring, be grateful, that's the awareness, and then take an action, which is, from your gratitude, do something. And then observe it and reflect on it, and see where the Dharma exists in it. And then, write me a story. It could be very short, but at least express what your experience was. Tell me what you came up to, what you were aware of. What did you figure out? Tell compassion, Story of Bodhisitta. So if you're in the US, you can send it to the Sampara account. If you are in the other countries, you know who is in the top. You know who to send it to, or they'll tell you who to send it to. They'll say, hey, send it to me. Okay. But anyway, this week, a reflection on gratitude. Like, what are you grateful for? And practice it. Like, do it, practice it. From gratitude, how can you have compassion? And then maybe on Friday, write a little story and send it to me. write a little story and send it to me. Thank you all very much. Be well. Be well. And wash your hands.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
