0:00:00
So we had to make sure we had the right people on the call. All right, so we're going to begin with meditation for a few minutes and it's going to be meditation

0:00:17
in silence.

0:00:18
Okay, sit up nice and straight and we're going to bring the focus to the third eye and we're going to sit in silence for a few minutes. Let's begin.

0:00:31
Okay. Good. Thank you.

0:03:17
So, for the intermediate and advanced students, I would like to talk about the heart of being. This means being. Being in your heart. Being for real. Being authentic. Being in a quality of utter truth in your heart as a being. When you can have that radical truth, that's enlightenment. It's greatness and beauty and wonder. The problem is, in our world, we find ourselves very confused. We have to drive around, rush around, we have to be like, doing things. And we get caught up in stuff with people, things and stuff. And when you get caught in the stuffness of things, it doesn't settle your being to kind

0:05:10
of balance.

0:05:11
and you're like, oh, my job, my work, my manager, my co-workers, my housemates, my this, my that. You get confused. However, at the same time, you can understand that and have compassion for that. And then a lot of people get very stuck in, what do we call them, attachments. So it's like, oh my husband, my wife, my children, very strong attachments. And there's an enlightenment in that as well. But if you get limited in your view, I mean Buddha had children, he had a child and he made him enlightened. So having children doesn't stop you from enlightenment. enlightened and you can enlighten your child. But many people get bogged down in the karmas. inspiration. Meditation opens your mind. Stop thinking what you're thinking, because what you think is garbage. It's true. Examine what you think. No, I'm living proof. Here, I can think something. You're wearing blue, she's wearing red. Blue, there's a lot of blue going on here.

0:07:33
A lot of blue.

0:07:35
So that's my thinking. And guess what? My thinking is real. But what's beyond my thinking? What's beyond what I see? I see things. I'm not a go-tart or a bain-marie. I'm the living truth. I am. So I'm like, okay, I'll have when I do it. This is truth.

0:08:31
This is reality.

0:08:32
This is the heart of being? Is it in an idea? A concept? A story? No, no, no, no. It's in reality. It's in something that happens to you. In a truth, in being, something that happens. It's not in this time, because in this time we can be like, Pizza is good. Right?

0:09:33
Pizza is good.

0:09:35
Pizza is good. And I'm like, well...

0:09:39
Pizza is good. But pizza is... Pizza is...

0:09:45
something that drags you into something that drags you into cheese. something that drags you into cheese. And pasta. And it's like, mmm. And it's like, yeah, mmm.

0:10:03
There's nothing wrong with that.

0:10:06
It's a pizza. Like, what draws your spirit? A pizza draws me into a spirit. Yeah. yeah me pizza come on pretty good well I got the ice cream too but I got to have a bigger view of things as intermediate and advanced students. Bigger view. It's like, well, we want to have a pizza or something or ice cream or things. And we're like, yes, this is something that my physical body wants. And yet we need to be like this.

0:11:24
Okay.

0:11:24
I don't need a pizza. I don't need, I have to be beyond that. And I have to show you and be real. Beyond a desire.

0:11:40
Beyond any desire.

0:11:41
I'm just saying food for example. But a being beyond desire. You have to look at that. And you might want to have a relationship, or a cookie, or a, I don't know, a sundae or something. Whatever you want to have, whatever your desire is, I'm beyond desire. Like Buddha. Beyond a desire. Like the greats of the greats. you know, like Bodhidharma or Krishna or whatever. I'm very happily beyond desire. And I will teach this Dharma. I teach you guys the Dharma in intense ways. I'm like, Oh my God, you're Why? You just have to do Kung Fu Karate. But, once we get to this place where you guys are strong, I'm like, yes. Kung Fu Karate. So, be great. when you let go and you're great so much energy from it it's not that there's a Not me. My intermediate students, you are great, you are powerful, magical. Don't deny it Don't refile it and push it off it is a Strong

0:14:36
True being of who you are let Your spirit be free And in my dojo

0:14:45
Yeah I'll give you a hard time. Be who you are. I will give it to you. Be who be, be, be, be, being, you never really be who you are. And if it's not strong, I will crush you. And if you're being as strong, then you're strong. And I'm like, hmm. But you have great strength in your heart and the greatest thing like you might be the wimpiest yellow belt in my dojo I will hit you and you will be strong So, when we have this awareness, a strength, we have care for each other.

0:16:36
We have care for each other.

0:16:39
The person that you're mad about is the person you need to love and help. Because a person bothers you. You want to be a warrior? So power is you being strong, and power is you having strength to help everyone else in your school. least the capability of an intermediate student. And beyond that, help the whole country and the whole world. But at least help the people in your school, in your dojo. And I'm going to say to that, Kamsahamnida. Thank you. And be wild, be strong,

0:18:10
and follow

0:18:12
the path

0:18:13
of light of light and strength.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
