0:00:00
Hello, and welcome to Death Part 2.

0:00:11
The sequel.

0:00:12
Death is the sequel. So I've gotten a lot of emails about the Bardos. the bardos and last Wednesday we watched a movie, What Dreams May Come, and there were some questions that came from that. So I'd like to address those questions and then I will hand you off to Kamala and she will be the guide through the Siddha bardo, the questions that I thought that people might have had some confusion with are the questions about help in the barnacles. People, connections. So movies always have a romantic connection, right? If you're a movie about something, there's got to be, you know, this is Hollywood, right? So there's got to be romance. So the connections that they had in the movie were were things that were very movie-like. It's not 100% how the Bardo's work. But there was a lot of it, and it was a big theme, so I can understand why people would have questions about it. But it's very important to understand when you are going through the Bardo's, what to expect. And it is, as they say in the Bhārata, that everything is a projection of your own mind. My teacher used to say, you're born alone, you die alone. And to know that is to have self-reliance. The most important thing is for you to have impeccability, personal power and awareness to be strong in life and in death. So when we go into the first Sparta, many people who have had death experiences back, describe something similar. They describe that they saw a dark space going towards a light and then on the way there they met maybe a family member, like, oh, grandpa, you know, an ancestor, could be even an ancient ancestor, or they could have a religious idea, so they might say, Oh, I met Jesus, Jesus was there. I met Krishna, Krishna was there. Depending on your predilection of attention. When we face the first bardo, the moment after death, you start going to the Dharmakaya, the clear light of reality. And if you go there, there's all these benevolent spirits. And they're projections of your own mind, even though it might come in the form of grandpa or your brother who died before you. passed over. But it always comes up, always comes up. On your way towards that light. This is the first pharma, according to me. Because this is what happens. I've seen it many times. Once someone dies, they start going towards the Dharmakaya. And on the way there, there's benevolent projections of your own mind, and it looks like someone that you know, or someone that you aspire towards. A god. A saint. So the people who have almost died, but they came back, they said, I ran into my uncle who passed away, I ran into my grandfather, I ran into Jesus, I ran into Krishna. So these are things that occur in the first sparta. And it's all these beautiful, supportive, uplifting things that bring you towards the Dharmakaya, enlightenment. Because that light, once you go in there, you run into them, they say good things to you, and they say, that light is a good light. But for the people who have had a near-death experience and then they come back, or a death experience and then they come back, they say, I've come back and Jesus told me it's not your time yet. My grandfather told me it's not your time yet. My aunt told me it's not your time yet. When they come back. There's many documented cases of this. Someone's heart stops for minutes or hours. And yet, when they come back and they're breathing, living, they say very similar things. That's the first bardo. Now, when we go on to the second bardo, which Kamala said, that I call ghosting around, when you're in the second bardo, that's when you've gone, you're like, I'm going towards the Dharmakaya. It's too intense. The more you get towards the Dharmakaya, it seems like a tunnel. And the more you get toward the light, it's intense. And there's no more anything in the physical. It is spirit to spirit. So once, once you get towards Dharmakaya, it is the true, clear light of reality. And most people don't like that. They're like, oh, I'm not ready for that. It's too intense. But if you merge with it, let go of desires, attachments, and aversions, then it's your best friend. But when you have fears and confusions and things you still want to figure out as a person, then once you get to that light, it's raging intense, and you go, oh, gotta run away. That's when you go from the first bardo to the second bardo. Once a being dies, they're there as a ghost for a period of time, for a while. They are very present. Their mind is nine times more clear. This is what the Bardo Tharong teaches. They're more clear than when they were alive. And so if you bring your attention to them, they're there. Absolutely there. Someone who's got a drill, like, let's just do a little exercise. So long. He's in the second bardo. So, the moment I mention his name, he's present. And if any of you know him, even if you don't, so long. He's present. This great spirit, a sangha member, spiritual brother, he's present for all of us in all of our locations. You think of him, you draw your mind, you climb towards his being, and he's there. So, when you're in the second bardo, you're like a ghost, and a lot of things that people call ghosts are beings that have been in the second bardo for a while. And that means that you have some ability to be aware. from your mom's house to your best friend's house, you know, and then you think, you know, it's what happens in your mind. These are still projections in mind. You say, oh, I had this girlfriend and that was a powerful thing and we separated, but then you go back you know, doing like a... creating a clay boss or something. And then you'll appear, and she'll be like, I feel like you're here! And it's true. She'll be making a vase, like pottery, Harry Potter-y, and then she'll be like, wow, how do I feel this? And it's true. And if you have a loved one that has died, and you pay attention, you will know it. I remember my mother had a great friend of his. She loved him, she supported him, even through his illness and everything that she could do. And then, after his death, she told me, I had a dream, and in my dream, he appeared and he was like a house, like all the walls, like it was him. So, it's just like, I could touch the walls and understand And a lot of people do this. A lot of people, after death, when someone's in the second burrow, they feel the person who died. They know them. They see them, actually. I had a next door neighbor, also, when I was a child. Two next door neighbors, Ron and Roman. And Ron was a troubled kid, and he, at one point, he did some drugs and he tried to run across this highway called 280 near Ceremonte. He tried to run across it. It's really hard to get across it because there's a lot of cars. So anyway, he died. He was killed. He got on drugs and he tried to run across the highway. He died. And then his brother, Roman, talked to me a few days later and he's like, I think we were 12 or something like that. And he said, Ron came to me and talked to me. He was in my room and he talked to me. And he was like, oh, I shouldn't have done that, I was confused. I mean, this is real. There's many accounts of people going to the first sparto, see Jesus or Krishna or grandpa and come back. They always say, you should go back. And then the second part, there's many people, my friend, my husband, my daughter, whatever, they died. And then they have this experience of knowing them, experiencing them, feeling them, or seeing them, and also being able to touch them. And this is what I call ghosting around. That's the second part. So, I'm talking to you about what dreams may come. It showed, oh, you know, your son and your daughter and your wife and your good old friend, doctor friend or whatever it's like okay but it's not really like that the movie gives you some openings to understanding the Bardo's and especially the Bardo coming this but it's like them this I'm telling you how it is. This is what happens. Second bardo. And the second bardo usually lasts a short time. It's like, really, a couple weeks. If it's an adjusted being. They'll look around and they'll go, oh, okay. And they may appear to someone, they might impress something upon someone, they may have a little frustration because when they're trying to tell you something you don't listen. And they're like, why are you just sitting there eating a sandwich? I'm trying to tell you the most important thing. So there's limited awareness and accessibility. And a lot of beings get very frustrated by that. But, you know, the clearest thing for them to do is realize, yeah, okay, I'm kind of dead. And then they go on to the third bar, which is a light that appears over here. It does, on the, well, that way, on the right. It does, it appears that way. And then they go into that, and then they leave everything of this earthly world. This is what happens. So the interaction of the first phardo is projections of your own mind, but it might be, but they're the highest projections. Grandpa, Jesus, Krishna. And then they give you wisdom. Go into the light, or it's not your time.

0:16:55
Go back. It's true.

0:16:57
And then if you go into the light, then you get afraid and you run away and you're in the second bardo, or you become enlightened. They're giving you good advice, either way. And then in the second bardo, you're walking around in your old house with your old friends, things that mattered to you, where you had connections. You go there. It's the second bardo. Now, after the second bardo, you go, hmm, I guess I'm dead. And you feel what's the next thing. It's like a current. Then you go to the third bardo, Dharmatak. That bardo is wonderful. It's my favorite bardo, except for the first one, the second one, and the fourth one. primal experiences of life and death, everything. Everything, even things you didn't experience in life. Everything imaginable. Everything that is truth happens. You face it. And there's no aid from any person except for maybe a yogi. But when once someone enters third bardo they just experience total intensities. The enlightened ones, you're like, oh it's super so cool I want to run away. It's too good. If you have ignorance and veils of confusion and things like that, you don't see that as something that enlightens you, you see it as something that's just too intense, you can't handle it. And then once you run away, then the Herukas appear, the wrathful forms of enlightenment. And because you ran away from the good ones, now you end up in the bad ones.

0:19:20
Ta-da!

0:19:21
Good going.

0:19:22
That was a smart decision. And then the bad ones, are, they're much more difficult to have discrimination to see that they're enlightening. And most people just have extremely hard times. They run, they get angry and run away from the good things and then they end up in a pile of crap, which is also enlightened. And then they suffer in that too. They suffer in that more. So that's what happens. I'm walking you through the bardos. These are the basic things that happen to people. It's very simple. And people on this planet, this loka, this dimension, this is what they run into. This is what they do all the time. All the time. So, death is a big rollercoaster ride. Life is easy. And life, you're all, how can I get through this without doing anything difficult? And in death, oh, difficult. You get hit in the face with difficult. That's why I say, get ready for the hard stuff, man. Like, we're not just sitting here trying to meditate and do some mindfulness for the little conditions that you call hardship in this life. No, you gotta have what's the worst thing that can happen? This is gonna happen when you die. That's the best thing about the third Bardo, it's gonna happen. If there's something that you are you have aversion towards, you're like, I don't like focusing on like war or martial arts or something like that, and you're like, well, that's not something I'm into.

0:21:18
Guess what?

0:21:19
It's something you're going to be into. It's something that's going to be into you. It's true. I'm not kidding. There's nothing that you can avoid in life and death, in the universe, in the third part. Now, this is... I'm going to give the advanced teaching after this. The advanced teaching is that there's awareness of how to get through it, and there's awareness of how to help someone, which is extremely rare. Extremely rare. Then after going through all of that, that primal intense experience of life, death, and the whole universe, where you're gone. Your story of your karma, your past lives, and all that stuff is gone. It's just your spirit getting smashed against eternity. Unless you guys are friends, and it's a handshake. It depends on your spirit. And then we go to the fourth bardo, the Siddha bardo, the bardo of becoming. This is what Bardo, there's a lot of times where the karma of the spirit starts to reform. You went into this invisible, complete empty place of no karma, of just spirit getting snatched against eternity and love. And then you come into the bardo of becoming, and at that point you're going to be born. You're going to reincarnate. There's no way out of it, once you enter that bardo. All the other bardos, hey, you're going to incarnate, then there's ways to do it. But you're going to start, all of your karmas start to come back at that point. So then you might have thoughts of your old body, you might have thoughts of your old friends or your old business or something like that. But you're way beyond that. These are ideas in your mind. You're beyond touching those people and those places. However, you think about them. So we're going to learn about that today. However, you know, those people don't come back and help you. They don't. It just doesn't happen. It's not something that happens. In the bardos, all of the bardos, if there's a really great yogi, a yogi of the bardos, they can help you. So my teacher was a master of the bardos. He was able to help students who passed away through all the bardos. So it takes a really a detached, enlightened, like a yogic, someone who is very adept in these structures, a yogic adept, to be able to help someone. So there is a possibility of help. It's not a natural thing. Almost no one goes through it. Usually it's like you die and you just go through karma until you're reborn. So at the time of death, it's the most important thing. If you're in a good state of mind at the time of death, then your next life is going to be good. So yogis, spiritual seekers, usually try to get to the highest state in this lifetime to be in a good state of mind. Because at the moment of death, then you're going to have a good life, a really good life, because you're in the highest spiritual state. And then when you die, then you'll go somewhere good. And then for everybody else, just karma. Most in very karmically bound states of mind. They don't transcend karma in their lifetime. They don't go, oh, I feel bad. Maybe I should be mindful and consider life is short. And also, you know, like Buddha said this and that. Most people just live the life, whatever happens, and then they die and they continue the karma. But if you can break karma from spiritual practice, then at the time of death, you'll live in a high place. But death, you know, The yogis who know the Bharata Tala's teachings, they can help in very powerful ways. Like my teacher has helped many of his students and family members and friends of his students. Alright so, that's help. I also have to talk about another subject that got a number of emails. A theme in the movie, what matters, or what may come, things that might happen in the

0:27:51
end.

0:27:54
So he and his wife, someone said they were soulmates. And there was a big connection in the movie about that. And this just gets back to the romantic Hollywood thing. So, it's also a very prevalent spiritual idea, especially new age. And it is like, oh, there's someone out there for me, and if I'm with them, I will be complete. Okay, that's the basic idea of a soulmate. And here's a very important thing. So I gave a teaching on self-reliance, and that means that you don't need another person. You don't need a god, you don't need a guru. You need to recognize within your own self enlightenment. So there's some Bodhisattva with a consort, and because they're together they're expressing something. So you're like, oh I'm the Bodhisattva, where's my consort? But the Bodhisattva and the consort and the Tanka, they're not showing that they're separate. They're showing there's a unity, that there's something together. And it means that that's within you. It doesn't mean that you have to get something outside of you. So when New Age people see those pictures and they go, oh, I'm a yin, I'm looking for my yang. Well guess what? Yin and yang are inside of you already. So desire is I must find something outside of myself. And I'm a yin, so I'm looking for my yang. I'm a yang looking for my yin. You know, things like that. People are like, okay, I'm missing something, so I need the other thing. So this is not true. It does come from some spiritual symbolism, yin and yang, but you have to recognize that yin and yang are together within you, which is tai chi, which is unity, which is enlightenment. When you see I'm half, I'm separate, and I need something else, that's when you're separate. That's when there's something missing. That's when there's a problem. So soulmates is a really beautiful new age term based on incorrect So, I remember, some people might think, oh my gosh, I've got so much karma with this person that I'm just drawn to them, and so we're soulmates. Well, karma is not soulmates. If you have karma with someone, that's a mess, because guess what's going to happen?

0:31:32
More karma.

0:31:33
That's a mess because guess what's gonna happen more karma Which is gonna be? rollercoaster ride of happiness and ups and downs More attachment and then ultimately no enlightenment So there are people that you've had deep karmic connections with and also attachments to And if you run into them, run the other way. I mean, like, unless you want a hard time. It's true. Don't go into that. Think about it if you've had a serious relationship. It's a bunch of karma. It's a bunch of attachments. It could. Generally messes people up. If you want to look towards getting messed up because you have a desire and karma towards that, you can do that. It's alright. So, this whole idea of soulmates that they have in the movie, but it's a big spiritual idea. It's something that is really a confusion or misinterpretation of the modern, I call it New Age, spiritual culture, where they don't understand. You are your own soulmate. To say I'm a yin and I need a yang is to say I'm not enlightenment. You are enlightenment. It's within you. There's nothing else. So yeah. This was a theme in the movie because it's Hollywood, but it's not something that's a real thing. So, you know, listen to that Dharma talk. Rewatch that recording where I give the teaching on self-reliance. You don't need anyone. Enlightenment is within you. Om Mani Padme Hum. on to 50 minutes of a listening about the Siddha Bardo, the fourth Bardo, the Bardo of Becoming. And Kamala is going to be your guide. She's going to introduce it to you, let you know about it. I guess we should take a break, huh? Because I took some time. Yeah, I did. All right, so we're gonna take a 10 minute break. We're gonna come back and then Kamala will be on and she'll give you an introduction and then she will guide us through this really exciting part. It's really and then she will guide us through this really exciting part. It's really exciting. Okay, thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
