0:00:00
Hello, welcome to the Summer Solstice Ganbara Satsang.

0:00:11
A lot of S's.

0:00:14
So we're going to begin with meditation. We're going to focus for one song on the navel chakra. So sit up nice and straight. Bring your focus to the navel. And let's begin.

0:00:31
so so so so so so so so So so so so so so so So, today I'd like to talk about the time of the warrior.

0:06:32
So this is the time of the warrior. This is a time of paradigm shift. The way that life has been changes. It's a call, a calling to the hero's journey, we call it. Things change and you end up in a reality, a different reality. The time of the warrior, it challenges you. It actually is a time of upheaval. It's a time where you're confronted with adverse conditions.

0:07:40
So this is a difficult time.

0:07:42
You think the past three months was hard and different?

0:07:46
Right now we're shifting

0:07:48
into what I call a difficult time. So the last three months, from the equinox to now, to the solstice, was difficult. But now it's gonna get serious. It's important to learn the lessons of the Dharma for dealing with this world, this time, this situation we're in. Because when we can deal with the Dharma, then we're enlightened from it. But the time of the warrior is a difficult time. It's a time that confronts And you have to rise to the occasion, as they say. You have to stand up and be stronger because of the difficulty. And that's being a warrior. So the time of the warrior confronts you with trouble, and you have to become a warrior. Back in China, there was a little Buddhist monastery called the Shaolin Temple. And there were peace-loving monks there. And then this great Indian master came, and they were very happy. But then he kind of left and spent nine years in a cave, just being in an enlightened emasement. And while he was gone, there were a lot of wars. And from time to time, an army would be passing by the Shaolin temple. And then they would say, hey, you know what, we're going to go out in there and just take their food because my you know, like general would be like my men need food and there's some free food over there or sometimes there would be robbers and thieves that would just sneak in, push the monks around, take their food. So when Bodhidharma, this great Indian master, the 27th lineage holder of Buddhism. He came back from his cave meditation and he saw that the monks were hurt. They were impoverished and they were malnourished and they were struggling just physically. And he found out why, because they were being robbed constantly. And so he recognized that that was the time of the warrior. And he said, all right, we're going to learn Kung Fu. And so he taught them Kung Fu. He was part of the warrior caste of India. So he knew he grew up in the world of the warrior. But he also had many past lives as a great warrior. Eons ago. So he was very, very powerful and he taught the monks martial arts, how to defend themselves, yet in a noble way. They wouldn't use weapons with edges. They would use their hands and maybe a So, he taught the Shaolin monks how to defend themselves. And then the next time that the robbers and thieves came, they just kicked the door open, decided that they are going to just take what they want. Then the monks fought back, and they fought back strongly. and then they created a reputation so then the armies coming by were like mmm no like we're kind of hungry but maybe not so the time of the warrior for the in was a time where they were having a hard time. They got trouble. They were impoverished. They were not being able to eat. And then the enlightened teaching of Bodhidharma was to do Kung Fu. Now this is outrageous, to do Kung Fu. Because monks are all like, we should be peaceful and self. And then Bodhidharma taught them how to fight. And that fighting or learning Kung Fu and having that power, he showed them how that is Dharma. And then now when you look at the tradition of Shaolin is very powerful. Their kung fu is amazing

0:13:44
Amazing so This is a powerful example of the time of the warrior

0:13:52
facing difficulty and then learning the right skills and having the power and impeccability to meet the adverse conditions with Dharma. We find ourselves in a very difficult time and then I'm just talking about what's led up to this moment because this moment is where it all starts. This is where the time of the warrior begins. But we've had the coronavirus and it's infected millions of people, it's killed hundreds of thousands of people. In the U.S. it's completely turned our economy upside down. Tens of thousands of people have lost their jobs. Businesses are dying. The economy is going down. A great recession is coming, if not a depression. And people aren't feeling so good about it. And it's not like it's going to change. It's going to get worse. Americans are so silly. Americans, like, are so funny. We're like, oh, my God, there's the coronavirus. And then we're all, like, sheltering in place, going, whoa, and we're afraid. And then after a while, we're like, I'm bored. You get bored. Like people have to kind of like deal with themselves. And they're like, oh my God. Or deal with their spouse and their children. And they're like, oh my, no, no, no. It was great when I used to have to work 12 hours a day. Away. away. And, you know, like, sheltering in place, people got bored, people had a lot of confusions, dissatisfactions, and they were like, oh my God. And then, the moment that the government says you can maybe shop at this one store, and everyone goes there. So for example, like Georgia, they were like, I don't believe in this coronavirus very much. It's just like the flu, you know, they were just like, they didn't, they didn't get hit very hard with it. And then they were like, okay, so that, you know, the economy kind of shut down, and then they opened up. They were one of the first governments or states to open. And there was this NPR reporter who was in Atlanta, and the reporter went to get takeout from Applebee's is just this iconic kind of American restaurant. It's a chain of restaurants and it's just where people go to get some chicken and pie. So this NPR reporter went to go get takeout because takeout was okay for a long time. And so the day that they opened up restaurants, this Applebee's was packed full. They weren't doing social distancing.

0:18:14
They weren't wearing masks or gloves.

0:18:16
It was just American mayhem. So that's what Americans do. And like, you know, I'm like, I'm driving down by the beach because I live very close to the beach. And I'm driving down by the beach, and I look. Everyone's there on a Saturday and a Sunday. And they're in clumps. And I'm like, hmm, no social distancing. So for us, for me and my students, we're still quarantining ourselves. Because they always say, or the CDC says, once they start opening up and you can start going to shops and things like that, there's going to be more virus spread through the community. So we have to be more careful. But Americans are crazy. They're like, I'm not gonna wear a mask. They're so funny. You got a mask? Okay, so um, but Americans, we have a history of this. It's a tradition. I mean, like, you know, we were under British rule, and then we said, no, I'm not going to wear a mask. And then there was a, what was it? The Spanish flu, 100 years ago, the Spanish flu, everyone was wearing masks and sheltering in place and being away from other people, being careful. And then they got bored of it. You know, like you get bored of, Americans get bored of things real fast. And then the newest Charlie Chaplin movie came out and everyone went to see it. And guess what happened? Everyone got the Spanish flu. So everyone who went to see the movie got sick. And so we have to be careful. So we, who can practice meditation to sit still and not fall into our first earliest desires. Where's the ice cream? We have to be careful. As the economy opens up and stores open and people start going more places, be more careful. So I'm in the Dharma Villa, one of our properties. And we're very careful. And Bodewood's also. We're very careful, very, very, very careful. We're quite under quarantine. In Bodie Woods, we have one person who, you know, goes shopping and then, you know, delivers whatever provisions and then he's quarantining himself. He's by himself in his cabin. And then here at the, um, Dharma Villa, uh, we only accept, you know, deliveries. We wipe them down. So we're very quarantined. And as the economy opens up, we're remaining that way. And we're going to do that really until there's a vaccine. Don't take a chance with your health, be very careful. But Americans in general are so silly.

0:22:11
We're like, I'm bored.

0:22:12
I don't like my wife and my kids. I gotta get away from them. You know, it's like, so funny. So we have to, you know, be very, very careful in this time. And it's a difficult time. What we've experienced through the coronavirus has been a tough time. It's been hardship. And then what happens on top of it? Well, a white cop kills a black man. Again. Does that happen before? I'm not sure. And this sparked something. This was the earthquake, the shift that's always been there. But with the coronavirus and this happening, it's an explosion. And it's difficult and it's hard and it's painful.

0:23:23
Believe me, it's painful.

0:23:24
And it's psychically painful. And it's spiritually painful. And this is something that's affected the whole world. Hundreds of thousands of people across America, the major cities, and even the minor cities. There's one, like even the minor cities, there's protests. And across the world there's protests and solidarity. There is a realization, an awakening that there is inequality in the government, in the governments, That there's a injustice. There's these western countries that have great power and they're not just to all of their citizens. And that it all stems from history, class, race, or race, history, race, class, things

0:25:03
like that.

0:25:05
So this is a very intense time where people realize, hey, this is not right.

0:25:15
And then the powers that be say,

0:25:16
of course there's justice, because we've created the justice. And who created the justice? The powers that started it, right? So we created the justice, but it's justice for just us. Or, you know, wasn't our, wasn't America created, isn't this nation formed for truth, justice, and the American way? Oh wait, that's just Superman. That's what Oh, no, we can't just believe comic books. We have to look at reality. You know, I saw a story about a protester in Alexandria, Louisiana. And he was a black man protesting at the courthouse.

0:26:27
And at the courthouse,

0:26:28
up on a giant pillar, they had a statue of a general of the Confederacy. This is the Confederate general during the Civil War. He fought for the South. And the protester said, I'm at the courthouse, the place where you get justice, right? And the symbol of justice is this statue is a man who fought and led armies to fight so that they could keep people like me, or my family, my ancestors, my great-grandma, my great-grandfather, or maybe my grandmother and my grandfather, and how long they lived. But he fought to keep people like me enslaved. And that's the symbol of justice. So, with the coronavirus and the civil unrest, We're in a time of trouble, of peril, of hardship, and of change. This is the time of the warrior. When you're confronted with this, you gotta do something. You've got to do something. You can't be in the same routines of self. You can't just do, Oh, life is still the way it used to be.

0:28:38
No, it's not.

0:28:42
If you haven't seen, things are changing. And what I'm telling you is, things are going to change more. So we have to be strong and smart and careful. You know, this is the solstice, and the solstice is a time of power. This solstices that are mega powerful. This one's a mega powerful solstice. A solstice is a time of power. A solstice is a time where, you know we're following natural currents we're following nature so mysticism we always follow the energies of nature and here we have this great, I call it Vishnu energy. It's a sustaining energy, sustaining our well-being, your health, your vitality. Usually in solstices, it's very empowering. It's like just a good flow of energy.

0:30:26
But this solstice has an energy of destruction. An intense energy. It's an energy where if you don't deal with it right,

0:30:34
you can get hurt. One of my students, Sara Swackie, she said, wow, you know, this is such an amazing solstice, like the energy is so visceral, so strong, I see it. She's like, it's all shiny, but it's like, it's like anywhere it's shiny, but it's like shiny knives.

0:31:06
It's true.

0:31:07
It's like sharp.

0:31:08
If you handle a knife correctly, you can cut a tomato. If you don't handle it correctly, then you can hurt yourself. So a warrior is one who knows how to handle a knife. A child, an ignorant person, you know, we don't give a knife to a child because they'll cut themselves, right? Or an ignorant person, you don't give them a weapon because they'll hurt themselves and others. So we're in a time of great power and great intensity. And you have to be a warrior to grow up and use the time properly. If there's knives everywhere, give me a bunch of tomatoes. But if you're an idiot or undisciplined or weak, you're gonna hurt yourself in this time. That's why the time of the warrior is a time to wake up and learn culinary skills. Learn discipline, learn discipline. Discipline your mind so that you can deal with what's happening.

0:32:31
Mm, mm, mm.

0:32:32
You gotta be careful, this is a hard time,

0:32:35
a difficult time. You know, a solstice is like a flow of energy, and it's usually just a beautiful, uplifting energy. And it's just wonderful. And you just go along with it, and meditation is so easy and simple. But this solstice is a tough one. So you have to be strong, wise, smart. You gotta be on your toes. You gotta wake up. You can't just sit there and fall asleep while I'm talking. You have to like, wake up. Otherwise you're going to suffer. So, it's like scuba diving. All right, so you're scuba diving. Let's say on a drift dive we call. It's like there's a wall, maybe 100 feet down, and there's a current that goes, whoosh, past the wall. And so you go down 100 feet, and you just sit there. You just have neutral buoyancy, hug me, and you just float across this wall because the current is just taking you. You don't have to kick, you don't have to expend any energy, and you can just sit there and watch the beautiful corals and fish pass by. And it's a beautiful dive. That's how solstices and equinoxes usually are. It's a current that you enter into and it's very good for spirit and experience and enlightenment. This is a difficult one. In this one I call it a downward current. Now a downward current is like you're on that wall and then the current's pushing you down. So, if you're in a downward current, you better be good at deep diving. And deep diving is very serious. Admit, I'm admitting somebody, sorry. Deep diving is very serious because the deeper that you go in scuba diving, the more decompression obligation that you have, the rapture of the deep, nitrogen narcosis happens, you have to be strong, very impeccable in your first attention to do a deep dive. And if you get a downward current. We're going deep. But as most of my students or dive masters know, deep dives are the best time. But it's like a deep dive. I can do a deep dive. I'm great at it. Mystic scuba, I can do it. It's great. Deep dives. But you have to be super impeccable you have to have a great like mastery of your tonal to go to a place that is so so deep so i call this the the blue tara solstice this is where we can see the Dharma in the face of great intensity. So blue Tara, there's a bunch of Taras, a whole bunch of them, but the main ones is Blue and green. Green again. Red. Okay. Sorry. I'm missing one. Let's go with green. Double green. Yeah, actually there's, in Buddhism there's 21 Taras and there's actually seven green Taras. Nerd fashion time. Anyway, so, um, green Tara is just the most beautiful, magical, wonderful Tara. White Tara and green Tara is young and vibrant and there's so many aspects of amazingness of green Tara. And then white Tara is wise and compassionate. So beautiful. And then there's Blu-Tara, Emerald's All. Oh, Blu-Tara. Blu-Tara is the wrathful Tara. Blu-Tara appears in an aura of fire, holding in one hand the heart of the enemy. And in the other hand, a knife. The beating heart of the enemy and a knife to snuff it out. And Blue Tara wears a skin of a person, a human body. Her clothing is a body. I mean, that's how it's depicted in Tibetan Buddhism we say eons ago like in a whole other world. That's where Tara arose and became the enlightened master.

0:40:28
And blue Tara came from white Tara.

0:40:33
So the story of where blue Tara emerged, came about, was in this ancient, ancient time. It's time that we call the time of fast-moving light, but it's eons ago, different universe, different world. And we call it Hyperborea. There was Tara, thousands of years as this saint of perfection and compassion and never harming, always just giving love, always transforming people through truth. And I've told many stories of Tara and this is the story of where Blue Tara appeared. So Tara came to a city that was in kind of civil war. There was a feud between two families, the Montagues and the Capulets. Just kidding. But there were two families in the city that were fighting and it was just horrible fights and killing people and all this terribleness. And then Tara came and that's like Jesus comes to your town, right? And Tara came and they listened and Tara told them how to be peaceful and taught them and they listened and then there was harmony. And then 10 days after this powerful and like all the trouble of the city was gone then a demon army so then an army of demons comes to fight to destroy the city and the first thing that they do is they with their demon power they torch all the fields outside the city and they torch all the forests because they have demon power and then there's a demon army of thousands of demons and then there's this one leader demon, the general, and he's got giant horns and he's He's a hundred feet tall, they say. And he's just this massive being, super powerful and scary. So everyone's like, oh my gosh, they're going to destroy our city. And Tara, recognizing this, walks out to the demon army. And all of the, you know, everyone's known the stories of Tara, where Tara's been compassionate, where Tara has changed the minds of the feuding, you know, people. And they're like, wow, there goes Tara, how beautiful. So Tara walks out and when Tara stands before the general, the demon general, the demon general looks down at this little petite woman and laughs. And then his laughter is pretty contagious. So then the other demons all laugh too. So the army is laughing and then Tara turns into this blue fire. Like everything around Tara becomes a blue fire. attacks the general and rips him to pieces with her hand. And the villagers are like,

0:44:52
I didn't know Tar did that.

0:44:54
Tar is pissed off. But Tar never did anything to hurt anyone. It's like Tar was always compassionate and wise but Tarr turned into a blue flaming fire and then ripped the general to shreds and then Tara screamed and then all of the demon army So, this is a Blue Tara solstice. It's also a very difficult solstice, in a way. In a way that, what do we have? We're, let's just talk about time. So the solstice is the time the time of year Longest here, right? It's the start of summer and the solstice is a time of power, but we also have a couple other things going on that Align everything to how horrible to a blue Tara solstice, so we have the waning moon So right now there's a waning moon It's where the moon goes from full To nothing and then you know new and then back to full Now During the time of the waning moon. This is a time. It's a time of destruction. It's a time of loss. The waxing moon to the full moon is a time of gain. So these are energies of nature that mystics follow. And so we are at a moment right now deeply in the waning moon. We are at the waningness of the waning moon. And the waning moon is... We're going to turn into a new moon sometime after, I don't know, 1143 or something like that. Tonight. In America. So, we're at a time where there's a waning moon. And a time... At the end of the waning moon is the time of the greatest loss, destruction, something that you get rid of. So we have this blue Tara solstice and we have this waning moon. But we also have something really wonderful happening also. We have an eclipse. And the eclipse means that the Sun, no more Sun. And this is also a powerful astrologic event. So being at the first day of summer, the longest day of the year is a very natural cycle. The waning moon, being at the very end of the waning moon. It's a natural cycle, but it's also a cycle of loss and destruction. And then the sun being cut out is also a sign. And if you talk to Mudra, Mudra is a contemporary student of my teacher. And he's a very, very, very, very good astrologer, especially for recognizing patterns in our system of spirituality. He could probably tell us a lot about it. There's probably a lot of astrological things happening, but all I know is there is an eclipse that happens. It happens here around sometime after midnight. And we're not gonna see it in America. This is gonna happen somewhere. So it's five o'clock somewhere. And then there's, you know, we have the waning moon. There's gonna be a new moon sometime like around 11 o'clock tonight but we are we are very waning and we're gonna wane right past the solstice. The moment of the solstice here is 243 p.m. so we've got a lot of bad signs. I mean we would call them bad signs unless we know how to deal with bad times and then you don't call them bad. You call them, this is how it gets done. If you're strong, you know how to handle things. But you've got to be strong.

0:50:13
You've got to be a warrior.

0:50:14
This is a very difficult time, very difficult time. And timing is so important. If you're doing the right thing at the right time, everything matters, right? If you do the wrong thing at the right time, it doesn't work. If you do the wrong thing at the wrong time, do the right thing at the wrong time, you know, it doesn't work. You have to know the time. This is a time of power. And you have to say, what's happening in this time? And then you've got to do the right thing. And it means that you have to take action. So our story of Blue Tara is a story, Ekajati, is another Sanskrit name for Blue Tara. The story of Ekajati is a change at the right time. Blue Tara was faced with difficulty, a hardship, and then Blue Tara changed and at the right time did the right thing. Timing's very important and it takes action. You have to have the right action. Can you guys stop that?

0:51:30
Is that ours?

0:51:31
So, um, yeah, so Ekataki at the right time dealt with something that was very difficult and had to make a change, had to start the warrior's way, right? Which was not what everybody expected. Everybody expected, everybody was like, oh, you know, she's gonna go out there and just go, everything's cool. But no, you gotta do the right thing at the right time. Not ours? No. Okay, that's okay.

0:52:12
Okay.

0:52:13
Well then, we go the warrior's way. So there was this guy painting his fence, right? And the sun was going down, and so he started painting really fast. And the sun was going down, and he's painting really, really fast. And then a neighbor comes over and says, Wow, you're painting really fast. And he's all, Yeah, I've got to paint this fence. And then he's like, wow, you know, yeah, the sun's very close. He's all, and he goes faster and faster. And he goes, wow, you know, you're doing really good. He's all, yep, I got to get this done before I run out of paint. So anyway, no, but you got, you got work to do, there's something to do. I would, I'd like to bring up the example of Ra. So one of my students, Ra, maybe you guys, maybe the Indian students know him

0:53:23
as Nagaraj, Nagaraj.

0:53:25
So, so Ra came to America, uh... the rock

0:53:32
came

0:53:33
to america and then with you know looking at uh... what to do here for his likelihood and he said you know he's a great healer grew up in a powerful tradition of healing amrit shikita and he said i'm already a great healer maybe i can do this as a career and i said no career. And I said, no, the conditions here are very different than in India. So I said, no, here you need to be in a career path where you can make more money and also have the ability to do things like work from home. It's like, this is important. So he's like, I can do healing and make enough money to get by. But he also listened to the teachings and he followed the path of developing his technical career. And then he was able to get a computer programming job where he can work from home. So when the coronavirus hit, it closed down our meditation center in the place where he was doing healing. So there's no more people coming in to heal. And then he learned tech, so he was able to get a really, really good tech job. One where he works from home and he makes way more money than in healing. So he does healing as well because he was able to deal with the difference, the change, and to learn technology, he was able to get a terrific job, really launching an amazing, successful career. Because you've got to see what's going on, you've got to know what time it is, and this is the time of the warrior. And just doing what you know, just being who you are, might not be good. If you're a healer where you have to touch people, put your hands on people, you might catch a coronavirus, and people might not want to come in. So, your business would be diminished, but when you're a computer programmer, you can make lots of money. Like really, really strong salary. And also, be able to work from home. success story of understanding conditions and even you know having the ability to do something else but to learn what is stronger Dharma. It's kind of like you know I was talking about the current,

0:57:13
you gotta know what to do.

0:57:15
You gotta be prepared. So I remember I was on the San Rafael wall in Cozumel, Mexico. And there was a downward current that I hit at 80 feet. And it pushed me down to 120 feet. It's deep, right? And I felt the current and I watched my depth. So then I dropped my weights, I inflate, first I actually inflated my BCD, my buoyancy vest, I inflated it all the way, which is supposed to bring me up. It didn't bring me up, I was still going down. Then I dropped my weights and then I'm still slowly going down. It was a strong current and then I kicked really strong against it. And I fought my way up. And then I learned about downward currents because I used a lot of air, my dive is over. And downward currents are, you know, they kill divers because they can bring you down to 400 feet or something like that if you don't know how to deal with it. So the next time I had a downward current, I was in Komodo in Indonesia, and I got a downward current and as I was going down, I kind of angled myself and kicked. I went sideways. So I kicked a little so I didn't go down too much and but I went sideways and then after going sideways the current goes here and then you get out of the current. And then I was out of the current and then I wasn't going down anymore. So you have to know how to deal with the conditions. You have to know how to work with the times and the energies of power. You got to do the right thing at the right time. Timing is important. Think about music, right? So in music, when someone is going to play one instrument or another, it has to be at the right time, because if they just play at the wrong times, it sounds like garbage. Like think about the timpani, right? So in an orchestra, there's a big, big, big, big drum or two called the timpani. And they're beautiful. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, right? And if the timpani plays at the right time, it's wonderful.

1:00:20
It's beautiful.

1:00:21
You're like, mm-hmm, mm-hmm, boom, boom, boom, dun, dun, dun, right? Okay, but if the timpani played at the wrong time, where there's a flute solo, and the timpani goes, brr, brr, brr, brr, brr, brr,

1:00:38
it wrecks everything.

1:00:39
So, in music, there has to be timing, and then there's harmony, and there's beauty and power. Like in our music, like in Zazen music, and in our Valyu music, the music that we meditate to, there's a beautiful harmony that comes from the right timing. You know, there was a timpani player in an orchestra, and his timing was so off that they kicked him out. They said, you're messing everything up man, get out of here. And he's like, no I'm not. And they say, okay let's play. He's like boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom and just wouldn't make a mess. Now after he got kicked out, he was very upset. He's like, my timing's not so bad. And he was very depressed and he was so upset he threw himself behind the speeding train. You know, you gotta ask yourself, what's the most important thing about a joke timing? It's He threw himself behind the tree. So anyway, so we have to have a regard for the time and work with it properly. It's very important. This is a time that is difficult, but, and it's a time of destruction, I would call it, or wrath, difficult time, time of trouble, that we're entering into. What happened in the previous three months has led up to it properly, then there can be a transformation. The problem can be fixed, we can say. Or maybe it can't be fixed, but we can find a resolution in our spirit. But the difficulties are things that we can work with. When we have impeccability and paya, social needs, we can work with really great hardships and do amazing things. So even though this is a time of hardship and it's going to get harder, I'm telling you that it's starting now. This is where hard happens. But this is a time where if we are impeccable for warriors, we can affect change. We can make things better, brighter, stronger. Blue Tara, back in this ancient age that we call Hyperborea, she was, after defeating the army, a year later, another army comes from the same demon country. And this army is 10 times bigger. So this general comes with his army and so Tara walks out and again, they set fire to all the fields and all surrounding forests. And Tara walks out and then the general says, I will crush you, and just laughs at Tara. Tara turns blue. Becomes blue Tara, and then starts ripping the general apart. Now, with every piece that Tara would rip them apart and then there would be, you know, a dozen generals and then Tara would rip them apart and then there would be a hundred generals. And then finally, Tara just punched the ground closed. Buddhism 101. Okay so then um so Tara again has a wrathful way of facing them and her great power. So then Tara realized that this is just going to keep happening. That the demon king of the demon country is going to keep sending people, keep sending armies and that Tara could defeat them but they're going to keep you know scorching the fields so then the people won't have food. So Tara went to the demon king and the demon king at first was very happy because that's where all of his demon cohorts are and he said okay we will crush Tara and then Tara came before him and then looked him in the eyes with her wrath. And seeing her wrath, he was overcome with dharma. He knew there was no fighting. He knew that the only thing that he could do is to subjugate himself to Tara. He saw the Dharma. He saw something great and powerful. So this horrible person who caused so much trouble knelt before Tara. And then he transformed in that and he became what we call a Dharmapala, which is a protector of the Dharma, of truth. And then all of his efforts from then on became efforts to help and protect spiritual seekers instead of trying to hurt people. So if we have, if we develop the great strength, we can deal with and transform adverse conditions,

1:08:10
difficulty.

1:08:10
It's very important.

1:08:12
This is our time.

1:08:13
You know, this is a time that calls you to wake up. It's a call to action. It's a difficult time, but it's also ultimately like a beckoning to your awakening. It's a time where if you see trouble, if it's hard, you've got to learn something. You've got to wake up and you have to see that there's something to do. There's something to work on. And when you make yourself strong and powerful, then you can deal with great hardship. You can transform it into the Dharma. But you have to be, you have to be strong. So you can develop yourself, wake up and become a warrior. Like Tara. But what I'd like to do right now is I'd like to sit in an esoteric teaching of awareness you have to be aware of the danger of the hardship of the trouble if you're if you're just being like wishy-washy you're like my teacher used to say a frog in a slowly heating frying pan it's heating very slowly so then you're all, oh that's not so bad. And then all of a sudden you're cooked. But if you know this is bad, it's getting hotter, it's gonna cook you, you jump out. So this is an esoteric teaching of the awareness of the time. And this is the time of the warrior. This is the time, this solstice, this eclipse, this waning moon, and many other astrological things. This time is the time where you need to change. You need to wake up and you need to become a warrior. So this is an esoteric teaching of that awareness. Seeing what is now. Seeing the time and being able to awaken. Awaken the warrior in you to face the time, face the difficulty and find a higher dharma. So we're going to sit and we're going to focus on the third eye to see. This will be an open eye meditation. Just look right over here and we'll just sit for one thought.

1:11:28
All right let's begin.

1:11:28
again.

1:11:35
so the the the the Oh so So so You All right, very nice. So now we're going to take a break. We're going to take a break for 10 minutes.

1:13:01
And then we're going to come back and we're going to have a very special thing for the solstice. We're going to have she introduce six of the songs, the last six songs of the India album. So, warriors have an anthem. It's something that they listen to and that they, in their hearts, they feel it. Music is a very powerful thing for warriors. So an anthem is the Zazen and the Vayu music. And there's many songs in our anthem. They are the songs that we meditate to. They're the songs where we find power and unity. And they're extremely important. They're extremely important. So after our break, we're going to come back and we're going to listen to some of the anthems of our sangha as warriors. It's a place where we come together, where we meditate. So, ten minute break and we'll come back and then Chi will be on and he will guide us through and tell us about the music and we will meditate to the songs and then after the us through and tell us about the music and we will meditate to the songs and then after the songs then I will come back on.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
