0:00:00
Hi everybody.

0:00:02
All right, we're going to begin with meditation. We're going to sit for six songs, so two songs on each chakra.

0:00:12
And when you're ready. And I'm going to play a little bit of that. the Thank you. Oh, So, So so the the the So, thank you. So, thank you. You you So, You. So, So. you you the the the So, so So So you you the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So, the the the the the Thank you. I'm going to go get some water. the the the Oh, so the the the the the the the So, you Thank you. the the the Oh, Thank you. Oh, the the the the the the the So, the the Oh, you

0:24:58
Today, I would like to talk to you more about the third point of mind training and that is transforming adverse conditions into the pathway of awakening. So I think that this is really the most important of the mind training tools, I mean besides the actual practice, but this understanding that we should be able to take the difficult things in life and actually make them into opportunities for awakening. This is what really, really helps someone in their practice. And it's also very important in this lifetime. It's important to master this. And the reason why is because in this lifetime, everything is crazy. There's a lot of adverse conditions. So my teacher Rama, he said that this is a tough lifetime. In the first age, second age, and most of the third age until the end, we had more mellow lives, more peaceful lives by far. So here in the Kali Yuga, things are crazy. The conditions are difficult. It's hard to, you know, really focus on spiritual practice in a crazy world. And so, since this is a crazy world and there's a lot of adverse conditions, then we get really good at transforming them into the pathway to awakening. And then, ta-da, we take something that is a difficulty and then we make it poof into something that works out really well for us. Yeah, so it's really important to observe that when you're facing in your mind and in your life adverse conditions them with the intention for transformation. Yeah, so, you know, we have a big adverse condition going on right now, it's called the coronavirus. And the coronavirus is something that is, you know, in America, I know, we're over 100,000 coronavirus cases right now, and it's, you know, it's at the early stage so it's like this is a very difficult time. We're probably going to have to be, you know, sheltered in place for probably longer. The economy is going to get hurt more, you know, students are struggling with all sorts of difficulties, losing their jobs, no way of income. So these are the things that we're working on to remedy. You know, in the first detention, by learning UI, this is a strong way, making sure that everything is covered, that you're washing your hands, that you're careful when you go out. So these are the ways that we deal with this in the first detention, but we also have to deal with it in the second detention in spirit in the right way. That means bringing bodhicitta, bringing compassion to the adverse conditions. And spiritual people have, you know, even worse. Not only is it like, you know, you're out of work, you don't know how you're going to pay rent, but you also have, you know, you're also psychic. So you're picking up on like all of the fear of the country, of the world, and we have, we have to be able to face that also with compassion. So when you're a spiritual seeker, when you're psychic, we have to deal with the first attention of the world in a proper way. And the second attention in the proper way. First attention, we're smart, sharp, or bright, or practical, moderate. And the second attention, we bring compassion. So we can deal with, you know, the difficulties of the job market, the difficulties of the economy, the difficulties of not having toilet paper. with people. We can deal with the world that's all afraid and freaking out and sad. And we deal with that focus on compassion. There was this new age guy and he lost his job because of the coronavirus and he didn't have any money to pay his bills. So he first skipped out on paying rent, he skipped out on paying utilities, then he had to skip out on paying his exorcists, and then he ended up getting repossessed. I just thought that was funny. But you know, we have to worry about like lots of things in this world, like debt and taxes. So, you know, we have that teaching, advise your debt. Maybe we should also advise our taxes. Or get a tax advisor.

0:32:12
I'm a happy girl, I hired one.

0:32:14
I hired one for advising my debt. Let's see, I was working downtown in Manhattan at this company called Bankers Trust. It was across the street from the World Trade Center. Permits. And then, there were these two guys I was working with. They were like, they were past retirement age. They just loved what they did, so they were just always there. And they, there were these two funny guys. They would get together, They uh, there are these two funny guys. They would get together and they would talk about all sorts of funny things, all sorts of New York things. And then this one guy comes in one day, and he's talking about taxes. And he's like, he's like, oh my god, my taxes. Oh, he's complaining. The other guy's like, oh, yeah, it's horrible, it's horrible. And then the guy who's complaining about taxes, he says, he's all, well, at least when I die, I won't have to pay taxes and then the other guy goes what if after death in the afterlife you have to pay taxes and then then the first guy says well then there there will be hell to pay. I thought that was cute. So the IRS is going after IKEA for $500 million in tax evasion. So they've been building this case for several years. You know, they're having trouble building the case. All right, so we got adverse conditions in the world, right? So if it's taxes, make a joke, look at it light. If it's death, then think about a reincarnation. And this was the last teaching. You're going to die. Death and impermanence is the case of the world, the condition of the samsara, and therefore it's important to do the Buddha Dharma to gain merit in this lifetime. So the next lifetime you'll be in a higher rebirth. So we have to look at everything in a happy, high, bright, wonderful way. So I'm going to have Savitri teach you guys a little bit of her experience of the third point of mind training. But we can't always look at adversity in a bad way. My main point is to look at it in a good way. I remember when I was teaching martial arts to my students and Tao, some of you know her, she was shorter and had less of a reach on her punches and kicks. And so she always felt like she was at a disadvantage, you know, because people could reach in and hit her before she could hit them. And then, but what happened was she ended up getting extremely good at defense, at being able to keep away from people's attacks. And then she had this like amazing like locomotive attack. So once she found an opening, she would just go right in. That was very powerful. So because she had adversity in martial arts, it made her become a much stronger fighter. Versus there was this big Hawaiian guy who was studying with me and he was like 6'2 and 220 pounds of muscle and he's just like strong and excellent reflexes and everything and he learned no technique because he thought I'm strong you know my conditions are good but he didn't you know he never got his boat on because he never learned any technique. The Tao having adverse conditions had to learn all the technique. So when adverse conditions come realize that it's something that you develop from, you you learn from and have a sense of humor. All right, so now I'm gonna turn you over to Savitri and she's gonna talk to you a little bit and then I'll be back.

0:37:02
All right.

0:37:03
So, Samara asked me to talk about this yesterday,

0:37:07
the transformation of adversity

0:37:09
into the path of awakening. And in my well-worn copy, the very first slogan is, when misfortune fills the world and its inhabitants, make adversity the path of awakening. And as I was reflecting on it yesterday and today, I realized that it's this exact point that led me to the path. And so, 19 years ago, I graduated from college. A few months later, 9-11 happened, and a few weeks after that, I moved to one of the poorest parts of the world, which is Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. And that's where I saw the extremes of adversity and misfortune in a very physical way for tons and tons of people. And for 10 months that I was there, I was working at an NGO with some of the poorest families. And then I'd spend my free time at Mother Teresa's clinic where there were these disabled orphans living alongside people who were dying

0:38:12
from tuberculosis and AIDS.

0:38:14
And the whole time, my mind and my heart

0:38:16
were trying so hard how to figure out how to withstand seeing so much suffering and how to be of service. Kamala will remember, because she came to visit me. I think on her first day, I took her to an orphanage for little kids who were HIV positive, none of whom were going to live to be grownups. And on her second day, I took her to a lecture about female genital mutilation, which is a horrible thing that still happens. And then we were going to go on more of an actual vacation, but what we ended up doing was meeting all these street kids, these 10 boys, ages 9, 10, 11, and one girl. And we spent our vacation time working with them to figure out how to get a room that they could sleep in and how to set them up with these micro businesses so they'd have a way to take care of themselves. Which is actually way cooler than any vacation, but still super intense. So I had all these huge existential questions about inequality and suffering. And then I also had plenty of personal confusion and dramas as a typical 21 year old. What career made sense for me? Who should I date? That was also on my mind. And so by the end of that year, my heart was totally exhausted. And I had the awareness to know that I didn't have the capacity and the skillset to be able to respond to so much suffering, both outer suffering and inner suffering. So my intuition knew that I needed to learn something about compassion. So I came back to the Bay Area and fortunately Kamala had found the original Awakened Mind Center some months before and she invited me to sit with her enlightened teacher. So I met Sambara and from that very first meditation and throughout all these years, he's been my example of this steadfast compassion. I brought my supplies in case I cried. So in every interaction, he's practicing bodhicitta, and there's so much capability and genuine kindness in how he treats everyone all the time, even when he's giving you a hard time. And I have personally had some incredibly epic hard times from Samovar. There was one time that the SD3s will remember where he made an entire PowerPoint presentation and gave a lecture about why you shouldn't be an asshole and I was the example of the asshole. But I want to learn his secret, you know, which it turns out is enlightenment and bodhicitta. So I followed the teachings. I practiced meditation, I built a strong career in tech, I got a black belt in martial arts, I learned to scuba dive, and I keep working on my bodhicitta. And now there's this moment, you know, collectively, where there's so much misfortune filling the world. Like every single human being, like all 8 billion of us or however many of us there are, are affected in this moment. And for me, I just learned that my brother is waiting for his test results, but he has the symptoms of COVID-19. My little sister is one of the healthcare workers like in the hazmat suit on the front lines of caring for people. And then I learned last week that my perfect next contract that I had lined up, like my total dream for next step in my career, just got postponed indefinitely. And then even outside of coronavirus, friends have family members who are seriously ill, other friends have dogs who are dying. The hospice where I normally volunteer, we haven't been able to go in the last few weeks and they've also stopped letting family members in. So I know there are people who are dying alone and there are people who are grieving alone. And there's so much to grieve, right? There's the actual death, there's the losses of income and small businesses, there's the loss of our routines and our plans, our dreams. And my heart is really tender right now. I actually wondered if I would just like cry my way through this and not because I'm sad, exactly, but like, because it's just super, super intense.

0:42:25
And reflecting on it, in some ways,

0:42:27
grief and death are the pinnacle of adversity and misfortune, depending on how you see things. But that also makes them these extraordinary opportunities for spiritual growth. And when you get real about it, and you do that when someone you love is dying, or when you're close to death yourself, everything falls away. Through my hospice volunteering, I get to sit with people as they're dying, and sometimes I get to sit with the bodies of people who've died in the last few hours. And when I'm there, I know, you know, it's so obvious that in this life, everything material is lost, including your own flesh at the end. And that's why it's so important to practice right now with the small losses that we have and like every disturbing emotion that arises. Because if we cultivate love and kindness now, then we can die in a condition of love rather than fear or regret. And I've seen people do that so beautifully, you know, die in a bright state of mind, surrounded by all this love. I've also seen people die in a way that has tremendous suffering. My sincere hope for myself is that my very last breath, whenever that may be, will be one of bodhicitta, taking and sending. And so the gift is this teaching, make adversity the path of awakening. The guidance is work with whatever you encounter immediately. So you practice taking and sending this extraordinary alchemy of compassion. You take in the suffering that you feel, you take in the suffering that you witness in others, and you exchange it in your heart, and you offer all beings peace and a light of enlightenment. And you do this for the big stuff, like when a loved one is sick or dying. You do it for the medium stuff. Last week when I found out that dream contract wasn't going to happen, I recognized that disappointment and I also recognized that it was an opportunity to take in the security and vulnerability that so many people are feeling right now and offer the light of peace and support and new possibilities.

0:44:50
Also do this for the petty stuff.

0:44:53
So when you find yourself reacting with anger and frustration, jealousy, all these disturbing emotions, as they're called, anything other than kindness, respond with bodhicitta. And then investigate what's happening. Like some of what I was talking about last week, drive all blame into one. I recently had some challenges with someone who's really important to me and who I care a lot about. And as I looked into it, I recognized that nothing that they were doing was the problem. You know, my reactions were what were causing me suffering. The way that I was looking at it was what was causing me suffering. And then even deeper than that, not just the perspective, but it was the fact that I even think my thoughts are real is what's to blame. Because the mind grasps at a self where there is no self. Next, the teaching is to be grateful to everyone, especially the people who rile up your ego, because they show you where your rough edges still are, where your disturbing emotions are, where you're imbalanced. So thank you to all my friends over the years who have shown me my own ego. And thank you, Donald Trump and the Republican party. You want to truly wish the best for everyone, including people whose actions you think are unconscionable or maybe even evil. Very importantly, meditate every day to cultivate ultimate bodhicitta. The guidance is that the ultimate protection is emptiness. And this quote is that, in general, all appearances, and particularly adverse conditions, are like the distressed experience when you dream of being burnt in a fire or swept away by a flood. The confused appearances of mind are invested with a reality that they do not have. I don't think that we can truly understand this intellectually. We need to experience it sitting on our cushions in meditation. By stilling our minds, we let the appearance of adverse conditions fall away. Spend your time wisely. The next slogan is the best way is to use the four practices. The four practices are accumulating merit, confessing evil actions, giving torment to gods and demons, and offering torment to the keys and protectors. To accumulate merit you focus on yoga and the amazing structures that we have available to us. To recognize your evil actions, you examine your mind and your thoughts. You catch yourself when you're being an asshole, practice bodhicitta on yourself and fix it with compassion. You know, lest Sambara has to make another PowerPoint on the matter. The term of it feels really Tibetan to me and the way that I see it, this particular teaching, is that it invites us to practice bodhicitta for everything, all places, all being, everything that's both seen and unseen. So just to conclude, be calm, be kind, be happy and joyful. Bodhicitta changes you and that changes

0:48:23
everything.

0:48:25
And this is the perfect time to practice. Hi everybody and thank you Siddhichri. All right, so I would like to do a bodhicitta practice with you, to do relative bodhicitta. And we're just going to sit for one psalm, and we're going to practice relative bodhicitta. We're going to have three considerations in our bodhicitta. The first consideration is going to be bodhicitta for yourself, for the suffering of your situation, for your adverse conditions. I would like you to start with really feeling the difficulties that you have, and then take them in and bring light to yourself. Then we're going to have a consideration for the Sangha. And for the Sangha, we're going to think about all people in our group, in our organic fellowship. Everyone who's having a difficult time. If you've heard of somebody having a hard time or talked to somebody. But trust me, a lot of people are having a hard time. So it's good to really, really like feel the difficulties and hardships that people in our group are having, and to practice taking and sending for the Sangha. It's very powerful to focus on Bodhicitta for our Sangha. It's a very, very high karma. And then what we're going to hold in our mind the whole world, all the beings on the planet, all the beings suffering from the coronavirus, their relatives, people who lost their job. So we want to focus on compassion for the whole world. So in the one song that we will sit to, we'll have those three conditions, those three focuses in our relative bodhicitta. So sit up nice and straight. And let's begin. and let's begin.

0:51:05
So, Oh, So, so So So so So, thank you. Very nice. Well, it was wonderful sitting with you. And I have an idea. My idea is to invite the intermediate students to come and join the advanced class.

0:52:47
There's some tie-in with the Bodhisitta teachings that I'm going to teach in the advanced teaching, but it's advanced. So if you'd like, you're welcome to join. I think it might be fun. Let's see. So the advanced class starts at 8.30, right? So we have a little time. So we're going to take a break, and you guys can figure out how to do the computer thing. And then we will resume at 8 30 with the advanced teachings that the And then we will resume at 8 30 with the advanced teachings that the intermediate students are invited to join if they so wish.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
