0:00:00
Hello, and welcome to the teachings on the Bardo Thetal. So we're going to go through an experience today. This is an experience of the intermediate states. We're going to into the experience that happens after death. And it's called the Bhartathandal, the Tibetan Book of the Dead is what they call it. And it is liberation through hearing. So it's an understanding of the states that happen after death, and it's also a way to help people So when when a spirit is passed you can still help them with liberation with enlightenment the time after death is a very powerful time of transition and if you have enlightened teachings you're able to Make a fast kind of transit, gain wisdom, get out of stuck karmic conditions. So we have this wonderful opportunity today to go through this liberation through hearing, and we'll be listening to the Shambhala edition of the Tibetan Book of the Dead. And listening to it's good, but we're going to have Kamala walk you through this. And Kamala and, so yesterday Savitri did the bardo blessing. And Kamala and Savitri have been studying the bardo thadol for 18, 19 years now. And they've worked on this as a yoga for many years. This has been their practice, their focus. They created websites like What Matters Now and Hospice Journey, and the book Enlightened Pregnancy. And Savitri worked at Facebook. At Facebook, they were like, hmm, it's weird. We have a lot of people on Facebook, but how many of them die? And then they still have Facebook pages. So she created the Death and Legacy Program for Facebook. So they've had a very principled study in this, and they've done the advanced studies of the bardo-dhal. So when Kamala is going to be listening to you, we're going to be listening to the book, listen carefully. Don't start doing something on your phone. Don't zone out. This is a time of learning. Okay. So, I'll hand it over to Kamala. And, thank you. Hello, everybody.

0:03:54
Good morning, or if there's folks in Europe on the call, good evening.

0:03:57
Welcome. And yeah, we're going to start out. I'm going to talk a little bit about the bardos to give you a bit of introduction and context, and then we will listen to the Shambhala edition read aloud for a bit. OK.

0:04:13
Okay.

0:04:14
So, the bardos are the state in between when someone dies and when they are reborn. And bardo basically means in between or intermediate state. And you can think of them as being very similar to dreams. There's a lot that they have in common with with kind of awareness and experience that you have while dreaming. But they also have a very intricate and particular structure with many many different dimensions and as a being goes on this journey they go through all of these different dimensions and have all these experiences. And these can be really intense experiences and overwhelming, but they're also opportunities for awakening. There's many, many opportunities for complete liberation and enlightenment while you're going through that journey. So traditionally, this book, the Barda Fidal, is read aloud at the bedside of someone who is dying or near the body of someone who has recently died. And the idea is that by reading it aloud to your loved one, you are guiding them and helping them remember what they learned during life from whatever spiritual practice they did and connecting with them. So as we're listening today, you can listen with the intention for your listening or for our listening to benefit so long. And if you happen to have lost a loved one recently, you can also practice with the benefit or with the intent to benefit them.

0:06:21
So, today the audio book is gonna be read to us

0:06:24
by Richard Gere. So he will be our first attention guide, but Sanvara and I and Savitri will be opening dimensions in the second attention. So you have access to more than just the words. And also Savitri introduced us to many of these dimensions yesterday, so you already started to get familiar with them. Another thing that I think is really important in the study of the bardo is realizing that all the lessons for after death are pertinent to being alive as well. So all of these energies, all of these lessons, you can use now.

0:07:13
So we're gonna start by listening to just the first part of the book,

0:07:17
which is an introduction, and then it covers what we call the first part and the second part of it. And the first part is the process of dying, the dissolution of the physical form, and letting go of everything in your life, and the moment of death where a bright light shines. And this is the Dharmakaya. And it just, they say it dawns, it appears for a very brief moment for most people. Sometimes so brief that they don't even notice. But what is revealed is the emptiness and luminosity of the nature of mind. So that's like a moment of enlightenment. And if you take that opportunity and become fully enlightened right then, great. If not, there's lots more opportunities. So the second bardo, or what we call the second bardo, sometimes somebody refers to as ghosting about, usual to us for a couple of weeks. And it's a period of time where a being is still very present in this world. They obviously don't have a physical body anymore, but they still feel connected to their loved ones and are present in their old home and places and are going through the process of letting go and saying goodbye. Alright, so we're going to go ahead and listen to the first portion of the book. And I'd recommend that you treat this as a meditation. alert, be open. Just try to get what you can from the experience. Chambala Publications presents The Tibetan Book of the Dead, The Great Liberation Through

0:09:24
Hearing in the Bardo. Translated by Francesca Fremantle and Chogyam Trampa.

0:09:31
Read by Richard Gere.

0:09:39
Although the Tibetan Book of the Dead is traditionally read in order to guide the spirit of the dead person, it is primarily meant to be studied and practiced during life, not only so that one will be able to remember it at the time of death, but because its teachings actually refer to this life just as much as they do to any future existence. Buddhism teaches that nothing is static or permanent. Life is a continuous flow of interconnected moments. The nature of each moment is determined by what has gone before, just as one's next birth is determined by one's actions during this lifetime. So we can say that life and death are actually both taking place at every instant. The word bardo means an intermediate state, a gap or period of suspension when one situation has come to an end and another has not yet developed. It occurs in the interval between two states of mind as well as between states of existence such as birth and death. Any everyday situation of hesitation or uncertainty or of inner conflict between opposing emotions contains characteristics of the intermediate state. So do those extremes of emotion when one is on the edge of complete exhaustion or feels one is approaching the borderline of insanity. At such moments of concentrated energy, one may suddenly enter a neutral state in which one feels completely free, calm and detached. This is an intuitive glimpse of the ground of being, the nature of mind itself. It is called dharmata, the essence of things as they really are. It indivisible emptiness and luminosity. Just before death, a dying person's consciousness becomes progressively more and more detached from the external world and from the body until it is completely concentrated within and there is an experience of a sense of internal glow or luminosity. This is called the bardo of the moment before death. After death, the consciousness is freed from the limitations of the physical body and is able to perceive a subtle level of existence where everything manifests as sounds and colors instead of solid material forms. Underlying all these appearances is a luminosity, the light of reality, and if one can recognize that and merge with it, one reaches the absolute level of dharmakaya. If one is unable to let go into that state, visions of the Buddhas and other divine beings appear, first in peaceful forms and then in wrathful forms, offering many different approaches to enlightenment. At the same time, our memories of the ordinary world of suffering, or samsara, also beckon us, appearing as paths of colored light leading us to future rebirth in one of the six realms of existence. Next come terrifying experiences of judgment by Mara, the Lord of Death, and the pursuit and torture by avenging demons. The fundamental teaching of the whole text is to recognize that these visions are the projections of one's own mind. As soon as one realizes this, one is liberated from the visions. Finally, if one has been unable to recognize this, one enters the bardo of becoming, the transition to a future birth in one of the six realms. Even at this point there are still opportunities to recognize the luminosity because the focus of the mind is concentrated by intense fear. Instead of escaping into a new form of existence, the consciousness in the bardo can stop and confront this fear and so attain liberation from it. If this fails, the text gives instructions on choosing a new birth that will be of benefit to oneself and others. All these situations described in the Tibetan Book of the Dead can be seen as symbolic or visionary pictures of events and experiences in human life. For instance, even at the last minute there is always the possibility of refusing to give in to anger or passion, refusing to be caught up in that world, and preventing the birth of some seemingly inevitable situation. The six realms of existence represent both the various states of mind into which our consciousness is continually reborn and the different ways of experiencing the world. They arise from the instinctive emotional reactions to the openness and brilliance of the luminosity. The realm of hell, the lowest of the six realms, is the most intense, dominated by aggression, hatred and anger. Hell can be burning hot, an environment of claustrophobic terror, or icy cold, a frozen isolation that results from pride and resentment towards others. The realm of hungry ghosts develops from greed, a hunger that continually increases and can never be satisfied. Possession brings no pleasure to the hungry ghost, only searching and grasping matter, so there is a sense of endless frustration and disappointment, even though one is surrounded by food and The animal realm arises from ignorance. It is a deliberate turning away, playing deaf and dumb so as to avoid the brilliant light of reality. It can create a comfortable, predictable way of life, but one that is also very mechanical and without any sense of humor, unable to respond to the unexpected or the unknown. The human realm is based on passion and enjoyment. It contains qualities of exploration, striving, and creativity that may lead to success and fulfillment, but also suspicion and doubt that continually undermine the sense of achievement. The realm of the jealous gods is based on a fundamental sense of jealousy or envy, as though the very existence of others is a threat to one's own survival. Here no relationship is possible without intrigue. One must always be on one's guard against hidden enemies and on the watch for opportunities to win either by diplomacy or superior strength. The realm of gods develops from pride and instinctive self-consciousness which arises when faced with the impersonal openness of the luminosity. It is the highest realm of self-development, pleasure and peace, with the feeling that one is invincible and immortal. We can easily recognize in these six realms the familiar psychological states of daily life, but at the same time we always possess within us inherent Buddha-nature, the latent possibility of enlightenment, which appears as aspects of wisdom or enlightenment corresponding to our particular tendencies. In the intermediate state they manifest as the five tatagatas or Buddhas, inviting us to dissolve into the rays of light that stream out from their hearts. The five wisdoms are the liberated energy of enlightenment, but in samsara they are distorted into the five families to which all living things belong. The first of the Tathagatas in the center of the mandala is Varocana, and his family is known simply as the Tathagata of Buddha family. It is associated with the basic poison of confusion or ignorance, which it deliberately ignores and out of which all the other poisons evolve. But Virocana also embodies the wisdom of dharmadhatu, the limitless, all-pervading space in which everything exists as it really is, the truth that reverses ignorance. The second Tathagata is Aksobhya in the eastern side of the mandala. He is the ruler of the Vajra family, whose poison is aggression or hatred. This is transmuted into the mirror-like wisdom which reflects everything calmly and clearly. In the southern side of the mandala is Ratnasambhava, ruler of the Ratna family. Ratna means jewel, and in particular the wish-granting gem which magically grants all desires. So here the poison is pride, resulting from the possession of spiritual or material riches. Its antidote and corresponding wisdom is the wisdom of equality and equanimity. In the West is Amitabha, whose family is Padma, the lotus. The poison of this family is desire or passion, grasping hungrily at everything, and its wisdom is the wisdom of discrimination, which provides the coolness and carefulness that allows for passion to be transformed into compassion. Lastly, in the north is Amoghasiddhi, ruler of the karma family. Karma means action and is symbolized by a sword or double vajra. Envy is the poison associated with karma arising from the insatiable ambition that drives this kind of activity, while its enlightened aspect is the wisdom that accomplishes all actions. The Tathagatas embody the transcendent qualities of enlightenment, their absolute existence. They are united with their consorts, the fertile feminine energy which completes them and allows them to manifest. They are attended by male and female bodhisattvas, which represent the principle of active engagement for the sake of all beings. At first these deities appear in peaceful form. They simply reveal the existence of enlightenment immovable and invincible, the beginningless and endless state of absolute peace. Such a pure and personal state may appear threatening as well as attractive, which leads us into the next vision, the Vidyadharas. The Vidyadharas are simply expressions of the same Buddha nature seen in a different light. They are the essence of communication, the divine form of the Tantric guru, possessing power over the magical aspects of the universe. They combine elements of both the peaceful and wrathful deities. If we do not respond to the communication of the Vidyātaras, they become transformed into their wrathful manifestations, the Harukas. The basic qualities of the five families continue, but now their energy is expressed in a very dramatic and powerful way. This is the ruthless, unyielding quality of peacefulness, which does not allow any escape. Fundamentally, the quality of the five families is a peaceful state because it is completely stable and nothing can disturb it. The tremendous energy of that peaceful state now manifests itself as wrathful. It is often described as compassionate anger, anger without hatred. These transformations too have counterparts in our own lives. As their active energy increases, not only do the possibilities for insight increase, but also the possibility of danger. For instance, psychic experiences and the awareness of the magic of life belong to the realm of the Vidyadharas, while the activity of the Herukas might be felt as an accident or a sudden shock that wakes one up to reality. After the Herukas, a whole crowd of other fierce and terrifying deities appears, each symbolizing a specific quality of enlightenment and carrying out a particular function of the individual consciousness. Again and again we are reminded that these visions come from our mind and we need only recognize them as our own projections in order to be liberated from them. In the text it says that all this is meant to remind the dead person of what he has already practiced during his life, but we can still use the essential principles of the teaching to help those who are not familiar with it by opening our minds to them and transmitting our own sense of warmth, stability and confidence. If one is close to someone who is dying, it is very important to be truthful about what is happening, so that there is complete mutual trust, friendship and communication. As the person's physical and mental condition deteriorates, he or she develops a higher awareness of the surrounding emotional atmosphere so that one's own state of mind is extremely important and becomes part of the dying person. It is impossible to know what someone in the intermediate state is going through or whether you are still having any real contact with a person, but the essential thing is to continue to provide this stable environment so that automatically the consciousness in the bardo will be attracted to that. When one listens to the Tibetan Book of the Dead, although all the symbolic details are significant, it is not necessary to analyze and remember them all in order to benefit from the text. All these details contribute to overwhelming emotional impressions. Just listening in a relaxed, open, and attentive state of mind will make us receptive to their inner meaning, and we will be able to recognize them as experiences in our own lives and understand their symbolism intuitively. The Tibetan Book of the Dead Homage to the Gurus, the Three Kāyas, Amitābha, Infinite Light, the Nirmanakaya. This great liberation through hearing, the means of liberation in the Bardo for yogins of average capacities, is in three parts—the introduction, the main subject matter, and the conclusion. Firstly, the introduction, the means of liberating human beings. First of all, one should have studied the instructions, which should certainly liberate those of the highest capacities, but if they do not, one should practice the ejection of consciousness, which liberates spontaneously as soon as it is thought of in the bardo of the moment before death. This should certainly liberate yogins of average capacity, but if it does not, one should strive in this great liberation through hearing in the Bhārata of Dharmatā. Therefore, the yogin should first examine the sequence of signs of death according to the spontaneous liberation of the signs of death. And when they are definitely completed, he should effect the ejection of consciousness, which liberates spontaneously as soon as it is thought of. If ejection is effected, there is no need to read the liberation through hearing, but if not, it should be read clearly and precisely, close to the dead body. If the body is not present, one should sit on the dead person's bed or seat and, proclaiming the power of truth, call on his consciousness and read, imagining him sitting in front, listening. At this time, sounds of crying and weeping are not good, so his relatives should be shut out. If the body is present, then during the interval between the ceasing of the breath and the ceasing of pulsation in the arteries, his guru, or a dharma brother or sister whom he loved and trusted, should read this great liberation through hearing close to his ear. The teaching of the liberation through hearing. An elaborate offering should be made to the three jewels if the materials are available. But if they are not available, one should set out whatever there is and visualize the rest without limit. One should say the inspiration prayer calling on the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas for rescue seven or three times. Then loudly recite the inspiration prayer for the deliverance from the dangerous pathway of the bardo and the main verses of the bardo. Then read the Great Liberation through Hearing seven or three times. It is in three parts, showing the luminosity in the bardo of the moment before death, the great reminder of showing in the bardo of dharmata, and the instructions for closing the entrance to the womb of becoming. First, showing the luminosity in the bardo of the moment before death. By having this read to them, all kinds of ordinary people who have received teachings, but have not recognized although they are intelligent, or who have recognized but have practiced little, luminosity and bypass the bardo experience to reach the unoriginated dharmakaya, the method of instruction. It is best if his principal guru from whom he requested teaching can be present, but otherwise a dharma brother or sister with whom he has taken the samaya vow or a spiritual friend in the same lineage. If none of these are to be found, then someone who can read aloud clearly and precisely should read it several times. This will remind him of what his guru has shown him and he will immediately recognize the basic luminosity and be liberated. There is no doubt. The time of instruction. When respiration has ceased, prana is absorbed into the wisdom dhuti and luminosity free from complexities shines clearly in the consciousness. If prana is reversed and escapes into the right and left nadis, the bardo state appears suddenly, so the reading should take place before the prana escapes into the right and left nadis. The length of time during which the inner pulsation remains after respiration has ceased is just about the time taken to eat a meal. The method of The Method of Instruction It is best if ejection of consciousness is effected when the respiration is just about to stop. But if it has not been effected, one should say these words. O child of noble family, now the time has come for you to seek a path. As soon as your breath stops, what is called the basic luminosity of the first bardo, which your guru has already shown you, will appear to you. This is the dharmata, open and empty like space, luminous void, pure naked mind, without center or circumference. Recognize then and rest in that state, and I too will show you at the same time. This should be firmly implanted in his mind by repeating it many times over in his ear until he stops breathing. Then, when the ceasing of the breath is heard, one should lay him down on the right side in the lion position and firmly press the two pulsating arteries which induce sleep until they have stopped throbbing. Then the prana which has entered the dhuti, will not be able to go back and will be certain to emerge through the brahmarandra. Now the showing should be read. At this time the first bardo, which is called the luminosity of dharmata, the undistorted mind of the dharmakaya, arises in the mind of all beings. Ordinary people call this state unconscious because the prana sinks into the avadhuti during the interval between the ceasing of the breath and of the pulsation. The time it lasts is uncertain depending on the spiritual condition and the state of yoga training. It lasts for a long time and those who have practiced much were steady in the meditation practice of tranquility and sensitive. In striving to show such a person one should repeat the instruction until pus comes out from the apertures of his body. In wicked and insensitive people it does not last longer than a single snapping of the fingers, but in some it lasts for the time taken to eat a meal. As most sutras and tantras say that this unconscious state lasts for four and a half days, generally one should strive to show the luminosity for that length of time. The method of instruction. If he is able, he will work with himself from the instructions already given, but if he cannot by himself, then his guru, or a disciple of his guru, or a Dharma brother or sister who was a close friend, should stay nearby and read aloud clearly the sequence of the signs of death. Now the sign of earth dissolving into water is present, water into fire, fire into air, air into consciousness. When the sequence is almost completed, he should be encouraged to adopt an attitude like this, O child of noble family, or, if he was a guru, O sir, do not let your thoughts wander. Do not let your thoughts wander." This should be spoken softly in his ear. In the case of a Dharma brother or sister or anyone else, one should call him by name and say these words, O child of noble family, that which is called death has now arrived, and you should adopt this attitude. I have arrived at the time of death, so now, by means of this death, I will adopt only the attitude of the enlightened state of mind, friendliness and compassion, and attain perfect enlightenment for the sake of all sentient beings, as limitless as space. With this attitude, at this special time, for the sake of all sentient beings, I will the luminosity of death as the Dharmakaya, and attaining in that state the supreme realization of the great symbol, I will act for the good of all beings. If I do not attain this, I will recognize the Bardo state as it is, and attaining the indivisible great symbol form in the Bardo, I will act for the good of all beings as limitless as space in whatever way will influence them. Without letting go of this attitude, you should remember and practice whatever meditation teaching you have received in the past. These words should be spoken distinctly with the lips close to his ears so as to remind him of his practice without letting his attention wander for even a moment. Even when respiration has completely stopped, one should firmly press the arteries of sleep and remind him with these words, if he was a guru or a spiritual friend higher than oneself, Sir, now the basic luminosity is shining before you. Recognize it and rest in the practice. And one should show all others like this. O child of noble family, listen. Now the pure luminosity of the Dharmata is shining before you.

0:33:23
Recognize it.

0:33:24
O child of noble family, at this moment your state of mind is by nature pure emptiness. It does not possess any nature whatever, neither substance nor quality such as color, but it is pure emptiness. This is the dharmatā, the female Buddha Samantabhadrī. But this state of mind is not just blank emptiness. It is unobstructed, sparkling, pure and vibrant. This mind is the male Buddha Samantabhadra. These two, your mind whose nature is emptiness without any substance whatever, and your mind which is vibrant and luminous are inseparable. This is the Dharmakaya of the Buddha. This mind of yours is inseparable luminosity and emptiness in the form of a great mass of light. It has no birth or death. Therefore it is the Buddha of immortal light. To recognize this is all that is necessary. When you recognize this pure nature of your mind as the Buddha, looking into your own mind is resting in the Buddha mind. This should be repeated three or seven times clearly and precisely. Firstly, it will remind him of what he has previously been shown by his guru. Secondly, he will recognize his own naked mind as the luminosity, and thirdly, having recognized himself, he will become inseparably united with the Dharmakaya and certainly attain liberation. If he recognizes the first luminosity, he will be liberated, but if it is feared that he has not recognized the first luminosity, then what is called the second luminosity will shine, and that comes when a little more than the time taken to eat a meal has passed after the respiration has ceased. According to good or bad karma, the prana escapes into the right or left nadi and comes out through the apertures of the body, and the consciousness suddenly becomes clear. To say that this lasts for the time taken to eat a meal depends on whether he is sensitive or insensitive and on whether or not he has practiced. Then his consciousness emerges and he does not know whether he is dead or not. He will see his relatives gathered there just as before and hear their cries. During During this time, when the violent, confused projections of karma have not yet appeared, and the terrors of the lords of death have not yet come, the instructions should be given. Here there is a distinction between the perfection stage and the generation stage. If he was working on the perfection stage, one should call his name three times and repeat the instructions given above for showing the luminosity. If he was working on the generation stage, one should read aloud the sadhana and description of his yidam and remind him with these words. O child of noble family, meditate on your yidam and do not be distracted. Concentrate intensely on your yidam. Visualize him as an appearance without substance of his own, like the moon in water. Do not visualize him as having a solid form. If he is an ordinary person, one should show him by saying, Meditate on the Lord of Great Compassion. There is no doubt that those who have not recognized the Bardo will grasp it by being shown in this way. But those who were not adept in meditation, even if they were shown by their guru while they were still alive, will not be able to clarify the Bardo state by themselves, so that their guru or Dharma brother or sister must make it clear. And it is necessary for someone to instruct those who cannot remember during the Bardo of the moment before death because they were confused by serious illness, even though they were adept in meditation. It is also extremely necessary for those who, although they were formerly adept in meditation on this path, may enter into lower existences because they have broken the precepts or because their samaya practice has degenerated. It is best if he understands during the first bardo, but if he has not understood, his insight is awakened by the reminder in the second bardo, and he will be liberated. During the second bardo, his consciousness, which did not know whether he was dead or not, suddenly becomes clear. This is called the pure illusory body. If he understands the teaching at this time, the mother and son dharmatize meat, and he is no longer dominated by karma. Just as the light of the sun overcomes darkness, so the power of karma is overcome by the luminosity of the path, and liberation is attained.

0:38:37
This, which is called the second bardo,

0:38:39
flashes before the mental body, and the consciousness is able to hear again just as before. If this instruction is understood at this time, its purpose is fulfilled. And since the confused projections of karma have not yet appeared, he is able to direct himself anywhere.

0:38:59
All right, welcome back. So we're going to take a little break before we listen to the We'll do 10 minutes, so come back at, we'll do 11 minutes. Come back at 10.55 and we'll begin again. Come back at 10.55 and we'll begin again. Thank you everyone.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
