0:00:00
Hello, welcome to Sasa. Okay we're going to begin with meditation. So we're going to sit for one song. We're going to focus on the heart chakra. Sit nice and straight.

0:00:15
And let's begin.

0:00:18
to the next. the the the the the the so so so so the the the so so you All right, wonderful. So today I'd like to talk about the Le Zong teachings, the seventh the guidelines for mind training and how they are used for extending bodhicitta. So extending compassion. Now this is a very important point, very important subject. Hold on a second. I have to put on my sunglasses. The lights are really bright for me. Oh look, you can see them right in my eyes. Okay, so this is a really important subject because in the practice of Bodhisitta, we're

0:03:33
not just sitting there practicing compassion for our own sake, right? I mean, we begin with the self, but the point of bodhicitta is to increase this capacity for compassion. It's increasing awareness beyond the self. It's increasing your ability to have care and to bring light to yourself, but also to others. So, one of the most important aspects of the Lojong, the mind training, and all of these teachings, is to bring awareness and liberation to yourself, and then to extend that compassion to others. The guidelines for mind training are practices of sila, so virtuous conduct. And in Mahayana Buddhism, there are three foundations. So it's like the three things that hold up enlightenment. there's sila, so these guidelines, and then there's samadhi, which is meditation, stillness of mind. And then there's wisdom. And these are the three things that hold up enlightenment. You can think of it as a pyramid, because if you go around acting negatively towards others, it disturbs your meditation. So if you have bad interactions with people, bad conduct towards people, if it's non-virtuous, do something that gains merit, then it takes away from your peace of mind and the stillness of your mind. And then you start to have poor meditation. So you don't have samadhi. And if you don't have samadhi, see, in Buddhism they say, wisdom comes from samadhi. Wisdom doesn't come from reading books or hearing lectures. The deepest wisdom of spirit comes from stopping thought, from meditation, from samadhi. So the foundations, the three foundations of Buddhism are first, sila, the guidelines, These are Lojong mind training teachings. If you are strong in your Sila practice, then Samadhi is a natural outgrowth. And if you experience Samadhi, then wisdom is a natural outgrowth. And if you experience wisdom, then enlightenment is a natural outgrowth. So we So, we start with the bottom of the pyramid. These are the Lojong teachings. See, Buddhism is a big pyramid scheme. I knew it when I got into this. I was like, what's going on here? But it's important because you don't just start with enlightenment. I mean, everyone has Buddha nature. So you go, great, I got Buddha nature, and now I'm a jerk. So that would be an upside down pyramid, and then it would kind of fall over. It would crush in on itself. So we have to begin with these mindful observances, these practices of sila, the Lojong teachings. Very important. You know, Buddha said, when he was teaching of Sila, he said, when monks first take the yellow robe, he said, you should, he said, no matter how good your meditation is, no matter how smart you are, you need to spend the first five years focusing on the discipline of Sila. And these are the Lojong teachings. These are Atisha's teachings of Bodhisitta. They are a very strong focus on what to do, what not to do. Karita, karita. So Buddha recommended the years focusing on this. Because no matter how good your meditation is, if you've got great meditation, if you break these kind of, I guess, ethics, if you do something that's bad karma, it will take away your meditation. It will lower you. It will bring you into a selfish condition. You might have a powerful mind, but it'll bring you into a... it'll lower your spirit into a selfish condition of awareness. So long ago in China, there was a Buddhist monk, and his master taught him meditation, meditation and he went into Samadhi. And he had this amazing, beautiful, enlightening experience. And then the Master said, okay, now you've reached really the advanced level, so you need to really focus on your meditation. And you really need to go into Samadhi more often. So he said, okay, so there was a benefactor who had a big palace and a big garden. And in the garden there was a little refuge, beautiful garden. And in the refuge, so the master brought him to the refuge and said, okay, so you're gonna sit here in this beautiful little refuge, you're gonna meditate every day, you're really gonna go for it in your meditation. So, going for Samadhi. And the monk was like, yes, I will do it. So the monk sits there and meditates really hard and isn't experiencing Samadhi, but is like really, really meditating, very focused, strong mind, good meditation, stillness of mind. And it's like, when's my Samadhi going to happen? So the monk is meditating and meditating. And then the monk hears this little chime, and he opens his eyes and there's a woman there with a little tea set. And she was a woman who worked for the benefactor. And she said, would you like some tea? And then the monk goes, get away from me. You messed up my meditation! I was like about to be enlightened and then you came in with your tea!" So he yells at her and she leaves. So he continues on, meditating and meditating. And then the next day, meditating and meditating. And he's like, where's my samadhi? And then again, here's the little chime, and then he opens his eyes, and there's this smiling woman with the tea set, and she's like, would you like some tea? And he's like, ah. He's like, how dare you interrupt me again? And so he sends her away. And then a third day, a fourth day, a fifth day, he's meditating, and she comes and offers tea and he just gets more and more of self with her. On the sixth day, his master comes to visit him. And his master sits down and says, how are you doing? And he says, oh, okay, but it's not happening. And so his master goes, okay, no, no, let's meditate together. So they're sitting meditating together. And then the chime ring. And then they both open their eyes. And there's the woman with the tea set. She's like, would you like tea? And then before the master can say anything, the monk goes, I can't believe it. You interrupted me all week long. And now my master's here and you're interrupting both of us while he's making me enlightened. And then ah, so she so she in Loyington, and then, ah! So she leaves. And then he goes, okay, master. And then the master stands up, and then he follows her out, and then the monk's like, what's going on? Is he gonna yell at her too? And then they both sit down somewhere on the grass amongst the flowers, and then she serves him tea, and then they're having tea, and then he's talking to her about meditation. And the monk is sitting there watching. And then he meditates with the woman. And then after meditation they bow. And then the master just gets up and leaves. And then the monk says,

0:15:31
Hmm.

0:15:32
He says, you know what? This is a good lesson. He realized that he was getting angry, upset, negative in his mind, and that his Master taught him a lesson that he could share enlightenment. He realized that he was just sitting there trying to get enlightenment for himself, and then he saw that his master would share it with even this woman who was interrupting them. So he's like, hmm. So he really took this lesson hard. The next day he's meditating, and then the chime goes off, and he opens his eyes, and she's there with the tea, with her smile like always. So he says, okay, let's have tea. So she sits down, they have tea together, and then he asks, what did the Master teach you? And she talks about it, and then they decide to meditate together. Then they meditate, and then they both experience Samadhi. And then he's like, wow, this is wonderful." And he really realizes that he had a hang-up in his mind. And when he let go of that and was able to share the way, there was more enlightenment. And then he went around with the woman, and that became his way. So this is a wonderful thing, sharing the way. Enlightenment actually is a bigger expression and easier and flows when you have a focus on extending it to others. So there was once a Zen master sitting with a pot of tea. A monk comes over to him and then the Zen master picks up the pot of tea, puts down two cups, and says, Black tea or green tea? And the monk goes, Oh! And he realizes this is a koan. He's like, Oh! He's like, There's only one pot. Is it black tea or green tea? And he goes, he ponders it and reflects on it. And he says, whether it's black tea or green tea, it comes from the same source. And then he has Satori, enlightenment. And he's sitting there in this euphoric state of consciousness, and then the master pours the tea, and then the master sips the tea, and goes, oh yeah, it's green tea. So one of my students came over to me and said, what's a koan? You keep on talking about koans. And I'm like, yeah, I've explained it like 10 times. I don't get what it is. I'm like, okay. I'm like, this is funny. So a koan, a koan is like a joke. It is, I mean, these are the old Zen jokes. So, a koan is a situation and then at the end there's a twist. Right? And that's what a joke is. It's like, knock knock, who's there? A monkey. Why would a monkey be knocking? Knock knock, who's there? Land shark. Better You know, things like that. So, um, so the student was like, what, it's like a joke? I don't get it.

0:19:44
What is a koan?

0:19:45
And I'm like, exactly, now that's a good one. That's a good one. I still don't get it. I said, okay, let me give you an example. Okay, what kind of dinosaur likes to order a chai latte at Starbucks.

0:20:04
A T-Rex.

0:20:05
And then the student didn't like that either. Student was just like, that's stupid. I'm like, that's a koan. I said, let me give you a famous koan. What is the sound of one hand clapping? And the student went, oh, that's weird.

0:20:23
What is the sound?

0:20:24
And then they said, it's impossible, what is the sound? And I said, well, if you're a T-Rex, it's the same as two hands clapping. And then the student didn't like that either. So, but really, you know, what is the sound of one hand clapping, and what is a koan? It's a conflict. It sets up a conflict in your mind, right? It's like, something, what's something that's impossible? It's impossible to didactical consciousness. It's impossible from the realm of this physical world and the finite mind. So you have to go to a deeper condition of awareness, to a deeper wisdom, and then you solve it. And that's called, in Zen, the punchline. Yeah, so with the Zen master and the tea and the monk, that was a conflict, right? Black tea or green tea? And the conflict was brewing for several hours. So the guidelines for mind training, they start with compassion, bodhicitta for yourself. Because if you haven't realized, you too have suffered. So you have to begin with yourself. And you have to be skilled in the knowledge of the Dharma and compassion and the guidelines of mindfulness, of mindful training, so that when you face hardship and suffering, that you can handle it. You can take hardships, difficulty, have compassion for yourself, transform that suffering into wisdom, and so that you're at peace. And then you're able to bring that aid to another. So you yourself must be able to meditate, practice the guidelines of mind training, and then you can help others. this is a beautiful thing to do. But it starts with you. Because if you're a mess, you know, if you're all angry and upset and blaming and all that stuff, then when you want to have compassion for another, you're compassionate only momentarily, because then you'll come back to your own personal dissatisfaction. So that's why in the Lojan teachings, you must begin with yourself. And that's a very balanced way to begin. So in growing bodhicitta for others, there's these metaphysical gateways. And the first gate is to have compassion for yourself. So the way of the self is, is this way of squishing consciousness down. Taking the whole universe of great beauty and wonder and squishing it down into dissatisfaction, self-limitation, anger, self-views, right? So if you have compassion for yourself, then what you do is you take a limited view and you open your mind and your heart to light, to the universe, to love, to enlightenment. And when you do that, this is what I call the first gate of compassion. You go from following your karmas into self and pain and suffering to breaking the pattern of karma and opening to enlightenment, opening to truth. And when you do that, you feel relief, you feel better. You're able to stop this pattern of self-negativity, and you go, wow, there's light, there's luminosity. And when you feel that light and luminosity, that is the first gate of compassion. And then there's the second gate of compassion, which is really much, much better. And that's of another's suffering. It might be someone who's ill, someone who's poor, someone who's hurt, someone who has great emotional distress, negative thoughts, whatever. Whatever you can recognize in another person where you see their suffering and where you can have compassion for them. When you can have compassion for another, then you hit this whole new level of bodhicitta, which is crossing the second gate. So when you see someone suffering and you look and you go, whoa, that person's really suffering, and you practice tan len, I really care about taking away their suffering. I really care about their enlightenment and giving them relief. When you practice that with all of your heart, that creates such a much more powerful, beautiful experience of light, of compassion. And that's the second gate of compassion. Then there's the third gate of compassion. And the third gate of compassion is where you reach a great amount of people and that might be a sports team that you have compassion for, like the Chicago Cubs, because You know, something like that. Or, you know, or if you're from England, Arsenal. It's like, whoa. Or maybe it's, you know, maybe you have compassion for your family, right? Friends, you know, a group, it could be your country or something like that. So it's a big group. Now it's a big group that you feel the networking of. So if it's a country, for example, you say, ah, I know this country, I'm part of this country, or something, but you feel the network of that country. Everyone in that country identifies as being in that country. Everyone who's a Cubs fan, Manchester United fan, there's a connection through that common care, that common situation, that common game, common land, all sorts of ways that people connect. So if you have that feeling of what that country is, what that team is, what that association is, and then you practice compassion for that. So if you're practicing compassion for the Chicago Cubs, because they will never win the World Series again, you're like, oh, well, you know, and you have true compassion for them, then you'll be reaching all of their fans through that feeling of connection. Or if there's a country that's suffering, or your country and the ways that you know there is suffering in your country, you can feel the pain and suffering of your countrymen. And you can bring in their suffering and give them light. So if there's political turmoil, social unrest, these are places where you can bring in, if you can connect to those people, connect to the whole fandom of the team. And that is, when you do that, you're crossing a metaphysical barrier where your compassion is much bigger and much brighter. And it's a very, very powerful experience. And then there's the fourth gate, which we'll talk about a little bit later. But for the first three gates, there's a good example. So, Madam C. CJ Walker. She had a problem herself and then she was able to solve it and help another and help many others. Now, Madam CJ Walker was the first African-American woman millionaire billionaire in America. In Canada, just kidding. And she was born just a few years after slavery. And her parents died young, so at the age of seven she was born, she went up to St. Louis, and she had her brothers there, she started living with her brothers. Her brothers were barbers, and they did hair. And so she would hang around the barbershop, people would talk, it was a social event, but she would also learn about hair. So she had a hair problem. And her hair problem was that, it was a problem that was kind of like, try itchy spots and the soap for washing her hair that she had, that was pretty much the most available thing. It was really bad. It was very abrasive. And it would exacerbate the dryness of her scalp. So she was watching her brothers do things and then she realized, oh, you know what? There's something I can do to help my dry, itchy scalp. So she made a salve, like a little potion, and I think it was made out of, I don't know what it was made out of. She made something, right? And she gleaned it from watching her brothers do certain things. And then she would put this in her hair, and then all of a sudden, it made her scalp less dry, it made her hair softer, more easy to comb, and all this stuff, and she was like, wow, this helps me. Now, all of her friends noticed the difference and they were like, wow, your hair looks good. And then she shared it with them. And then a lot of them also had the problem because the soap that was readily available was bad.

0:33:05
It was very abrasive.

0:33:06
And so her friends started using it and liking it. And then she said, you know, this is especially perfect for African-American women, because she's like, I had this problem, I suffered this problem. And then some of my friends did, and it helped them. And African-American women have the same problem, have this tendency. And the only product available is not good for their hair. So then she started going door to door selling it. It was very successful. She got all of her friends and many other people selling it and then it started getting into shops, opened up a big factory. very, very, very great growth. So she ended up being extremely successful and influential in the African-American community. And she was also very empowering to the success of women. So her salespeople, when they became very committed and very strong, she taught them how to create sales organizations so that they could basically have their own company and be financially independent. But then she would make alliances with them so that they can still work together. And so she built this and it was very successful, very, very, very amazing. So she suffered a hair problem, she fixed it for herself, then her friends had the problem, she helped another, and then she helped many, and she became extremely successful. So that's the way of bodhicitta. That is a very structured, positive, constructive path for one to take. Now the guidelines of mind training, they're not opinions. When you are learning these things, these are not like someone going, you know, it's It's actually better to put mayonnaise on a sandwich than margarine or something like that, right? It's not an opinion. It's not like, you know, it's not one person's way versus another. It's a very universal way. So it's not like, I like hip-hop. You like opera. So we're different.

0:35:55
Right?

0:35:56
No, it's something bigger that brings us all together, where there's something more universal,

0:35:58
like hop-ra.

0:35:59
Hip-hop-opera. Okay. But yeah, so when we're looking at the guidelines of mind training, the precepts, and these teachings of Sila, Karita and Barita, these are not someone's opinion. These are dharmic truths, because opinions are like, oh yeah, this works for me, this doesn't work for me. So if you go over to Buddha and you say, yeah, I like four out of five of your precepts, yeah, then you'll be like, not doing so well in terms of living, living happy and free. Okay, so there was this gal who was really getting into Bitcoin and she was trading it and making a lot of success. Now her father was a banker, like a Wall Street banker. And then he said to her, do you know, he said, can I give you my opinion about Bitcoin? And And she says, yeah, sure, Dad. And he says, it's worthless. And she says, yeah, I know, but give me your opinion anyway. So opinions are like... So, these guidelines, mind training, are universal truths. They're things that truthfully and really affect you. They affect your spirit. And when we can recognize the suffering of another suffering, that is the heart of Bodhicitta. It's compassion, it's caring for the well-being of another, more than the well-being of yourself, and doing something about it. That's the heart of bodhichitta. And when you can see and recognize the suffering of another and you can help them, then you can see everybody else who has the same affliction So, up until the late 7th century in Tibet, the Bon religion was the original religion of Tibet. The Bon religion of Lamas, they practiced human sacrifice and it was just what they did. They're like, hmm, we have to make sure that the barley crops are gonna be plentiful.

0:39:47
Let's kill someone.

0:39:48
You know, put someone on an altar. And this was part of their ceremonies. So there was this one Bon religion practitioner. He was like a learner. And they were going through the normal thing and they're like, oh, gotta make sure the crop's gonna be good this year. We've got to pick out somebody to kill. And then they say, hell, that hurt. So they grab this, they have this social contract where it's like, okay, it's your turn. And they took a woman and she was to be sacrificed. And then this student of Bonne looked at her and she was terrified and she was suffering. And she knew that this is what they did in society, but she didn't particularly want to do it. So she was staying in this house next to the temple and he went over and saw her at night and he was like, I don't know if this is, is this dharma, is this truth?" Because she didn't, she looked miserable, she suffered. And he said, if this is a good thing, why does it bring so much suffering to her? And so he then went out to this new way of spirituality called Buddhism.

0:41:41
And he talked to Padmasambhava,

0:41:43
he said, hey, Padmasambhava, this seems like a raw deal for her. And Padmasambhava said, yes, it is. It is not the Dharma. And then Padmasambhava went over to her, talked to her, and then Padmasambhava astounded with her, took her away. And then he created this kind of a doll, life-sized doll out of dough, and put it on the altar, and then dressed it up like her. So it's like a, you know, we've got this thing called Pillsbury Doughboy. This is a Bond religion dough girl. So then the next day for the ceremony, you know, the crop is perfect and amazing. And then all of a sudden the lama is like, oh my gosh! And Padmasambhava says, it is not the dharma to kill. Even for a religious reason that you think, especially because you think it's a benefit to you and other people, he said, this is killing and this is out of trying to achieve a desire for yourself. So he said, this is not the Dharma, and from now on, instead of killing people, instead of human sacrifice, use, you can use little dolls of dough. And so in the 8th century, the Bon religion stopped and stopped this practice of human sacrifice. So this is a powerful dharma because there was the suffering, the recognition of suffering for one person, and the recognition that something was going on that was universally not right. And then, Padmasambhava accepted. Then, this saved that person who was suffering, but it also righted the wrong of that condition for the whole country. We had something similar in America called slavery. So America had this intense kind of institution of slavery. Now, slavery, according to the guidelines, is ad-dharma, or against dharma, because it is... they would just call it stealing. Instead of stealing a possession from someone, it's just stealing someone's life. And then, like, everything that they do is for your benefit. So, you have a desire, you want to get something out of someone, you get all of their labor. So America has this history of slavery, and it's really fundamental to the roots of America. fathers, the first president, George Washington or Thomas Jefferson, were like, wow, patriots. They did all these great things, but they also owned slaves. So they were transgressors of the Dharma in the Sagari. And the Capitol building in Washington, D.C. and the White House were built with slave labor. Our greatest universities, Harvard, Princeton, the founders were slave owners. Yale is named after a slave trader. So it's like, what in America didn't start with slaves? A lot of businesses like Brooks Brothers started and profited from slavery. Tiffany and Co, Nice Jewelry, was funded by slavery. Yeah, all sorts of businesses. So, it's difficult to see in America a lot of hardship following not-dharma in the beginning. And banking was huge. So, like, New York Life, Bank of America, JP Morgan Chase, all these big American banks, they all had their fingers in slavery and the trade and transport of slaves. They made significant amounts of their capital from the slave trade. So what's in your wallet? Slave money, right? So America started with this really negative tradition. But then there was a group very early on in America who said, you know what, this is wrong. And this was a group called the Quakers. And the Quakers, they make a decent oatmeal. And they, there's a brand called Quaker. So the Quakers, they were this very, very positive Christian organization. And they said, you know what? This whole thing about slavery kind of breaks the golden rule of Christianity. do unto your neighbor as you would have them do unto you. And it's like, I wouldn't want to get scallywagged, kidnapped, and put to work for someone else and knock up my liberty. So why would we do that to another? So in the late 1700s, the Quakers were the first Western organization to ban slavery. And then they worked with Benjamin Franklin to abolish slavery. Now there was one Quaker, his name was Thomas Garrett. And he had a small business, I think it was a blacksmithing business or something. And he was a Quaker in the 1800s. And slavery was not a thing that they were into. But he had free black men and women who worked on his land, and they were paid, right? Like farmhands. And one day, these guys came up from the South and they kidnapped one of his field hands, a woman, and they were going to bring her to the South and sell her into slavery. But he and his brothers caught them on the way and freed her. And then he said, and then that hit very close to home for him, he said, you know, this is just wrong, what they're doing. You know, we've been in our little bubble, keeping things safe and nice here, but, you know, this is gonna encroach upon us, and we need to be proactive. So he started to really speak out about it. And then he eventually networked with Harriet Tubman, and early on, when she was creating the Underground Railroad. And he became an ally of hers and he became what they call a station master of the Underground Railroad. So he let thousands of slaves come in, supported through his house, onward to other places in the North to be free. So he was a very powerful advocate. He was very actually, he was one of the supporters of Harriet Tubman to get her family out of the South. So he was the one who funded that. Now, after a while, he got busted. He got arrested, went to court, and he had this big court case because he was breaking the law. And the law was that you couldn't aid a fugitive, even if the fugitive was a slave. So they were a fugitive from justice, breaking the law in some state. And so he went to court and eventually he lost in court. But he didn't have any jail time, they just gave him a big penalty, a fine that he had to pay. But it was a huge fine, so he ended up losing his house and his farm. And in court, when he, his last words after they gave him this big fine, he said to the judge, you may have taken my last dollar, but if you know any slave who needs help, send them to me. He's like, any fugitive, any slave, if they need assistance, then I And then the judge was just all, you idiot. The judge later became the chief justice of the Supreme Court. America. So it is really the dharma when someone can see the suffering and the universal wrong of something and help another person. And then from that, help many who have the same condition. This is growing the power of compassion. Yeah, it does. The biggest form of slavery that exists today is sex trafficking. This is where tens of thousands, most of them, get taken out of their homes, usually to other other countries and they get stuck in a brothel and they either get sold into it or tripped into it and then they have no choice and then they're just stuck. So this is something that is happening today. So when we recognize, like let's say in our country, the injustices of the past and the suffering that people had and the result of suffering from that. We should also recognize that these conditions continue for others. So there should be a reason for us to say, wow, in America there was slavery and that was a bad deal and I have compassion for, let's say, America. And then you say, but hey, that slavery thing is still happening. Then you should open your compassion. You should have a greater awareness, not just about you, yourself, and your country, and your suffering, but more. And this opens and opens and opens and opens. Compassion is powerful. Now I found out about this sex trafficking when I was in Kathmandu. So in Kathmandu, I had made friends with these street kids. They were these homeless kids who lived on the street and they formed a little club. They were between 6 and 12 years old and they just kind of band together to survive. And one of them one day was like bothered. So he's a little boy and he was all upset and I said, what? And he goes, well, it's like, I met a friend yesterday who was from my village, and he said, and I heard that my dad sold my sister.

0:56:12
And I was like, sold your sister?

0:56:14
I was like, what is that? I had never heard about it before. And then he goes, yeah, you know, to the brothels or something. And I was like, that's a thing? You can get sold into a brothel? And he's like, yeah, that happens. So I was like, oh, that's terrible. So, so we did a little bit of investigation, and then we found out that she was sold to a place in Kathmandu, and she was She was getting staged there to move to India.

0:56:42
So apparently in Kathmandu,

0:56:44
that's one of the biggest trafficking routes from Nepal. Like thousands of girls a year get sent down to India to fill the brothels. And I had never heard about that. So I started learning about that. And I met this group there called Mikey Nepal. And their organization helps free the girls from these brothels, or before they get into the brothels, hopefully, and get them into programs to teach them skills so that they don't have to rely on their families. Because once they get sold by their parents, because the reason that she got sold was because the mother and father just didn't have any money. That's why he hit the streets. He couldn't be fed. And he was like, well, whatever food they have, I'd rather them give it to my sister. And then they're like, oh, we don't even have enough food for her. They sold her for not very much money, $100 or which to them seemed like a lot. That's a lot for a year. But then they sold their daughter. And so I started talking to my team at Paul and finding out about this, and I said, that is just a raw deal. And I said, we gotta get this girl back before she's sent off. So we did what we call in movies a sting operation. Where we infiltrated this organization, snuck her out, no we didn't sneak her out. We actually went in and we bought her out. So to buy her out was I think about $185. Yeah, which I paid for, which was not a lot for me. But for them, they're like, oh, cool, we turned a profit. That's how much we were gonna sell her for or something. So I'm like, well, I'll buy her. And then they're like, oh, okay, great. So then she went into the Mighty Nepal program and then she learned some sort of trade so that she was able to make things for sale. And so in Mighty Nepal they get the women together and then they're able to make products and sell them and make a living. It was really good.

0:59:33
So,

0:59:34
So when you're looking at a situation, you have to say, well, there's suffering here. And this is universally not right. And there's a person suffering. And then you go, I'm going to help. I'm going to do something to help. And then since then I've been giving to my So, I not only have compassion in my heart for this situation that's going on, but I also practice anti-slavery. I fight slavery in compassion, in bodhichitta, because it's something that I'm aware of, but also I do something. I just support this organization. Good.

1:00:33
Now I would like to practice bodhicitta with you.

1:00:38
I would like you to have a, maybe a soft focus on the heart. And we're going to first start with the first gate of bodhicitta, which is awareness of your suffering, into your heart, and then let it dissolve in your heart. And then bring this enlightened light to yourself that frees you from your suffering. This is the first gate of suffering. So we'll do a consideration for another. So just bring into mind someone, some other individual that you have seen suffer that opens compassion in your heart. It could be any kind of suffering that you've seen that you remember. Maybe they're suffering something you were suffering. But something that really you've seen, you connect with, that you say, wow, that's suffering, that opens your heart to the second gate where you can have compassion for them. And then after 30, 40 seconds, we'll go on to say, you know what? Many people have it. And then you connect to that whole group of people who have the same suffering. It might be sex trafficking, it might be slavery, it might be social unrest in your country, it might be your baseball team that's never going to win the World Series. Whatever it is that you connect to, all those people who have that suffering. That's the third gate of Bodhicitta. So we're going to sit for one song and we're going to practice Bodhicitta, compassion, calm, lent, taking and sending for yourself, for another, and for a group of people, a large group of people who have a common suffering. So please sit up nice and straight. We're going to do a focus for one song. The song is going to be about five minutes, and we're going to practice these three steps of compassion. this with eyes closed. Sit up nice and straight and let's begin.

1:03:42
Thank you. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Thank you. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Thank you. All right, wonderful. So we're going to take a break for 10 minutes, then we'll come back

1:07:06
and we'll have a little short discussion, a little bit more meditation. Okay, so I'd like to talk about the considerations of karita and varita. So karita and varita are the do's and the don'ts. He's like, okay, so let me tell you the first precepts of Buddhism. So someone could say, what is it to be a Buddhist? And he's all, don't do this, don't do this, don't do this, don't do this, don'ts. It's all about these varitas. So there's a lot of things that they say, don't do. But it's not a rule. Again, when the Buddha says, don't kill or don't steal, it doesn't mean that you should do it, but it's something that you reflect on. And then you see that it's not a rule, but it's actually a dharma. There's a truth or a reason for this general guideline that you reflect on. And then you say, oh yes, yes, now I know it. So when there are the vareetas, there are things to reflect on. Because there's always an exception for a rule. Like Buddha himself, in a previous incarnation, when he was a Bodhisattva, he killed a guy with an axe. He murdered someone with an axe. Buddha was on a boat with 500 people, and this is a previous incarnation where he was a great bodhisattva. And there was one person on the boat who wanted to kill themselves and everybody. So this person started to make a hole in the head, killing him. And Buddha remarked on that, well, I did kill someone, but it was in that case, upon reflection, the Dharma, because it saved lives. So if you have perfect enlightened vision and seeing, you know, like Padmasambhava, Buddha or something, you can see where there is Dharma in following the guidelines. Because if you don't kill the guy who's trying to make the hole, then everyone else acts. So this is where you get into those places where one has to have deep seeing. That's why these teachings are guidelines and they're actually very, they're very deep so you could reflect on them in very very deep ways to come to enlightened perfect awareness of truth. So you can say, well, you know, this is the precept so don't do it. And you say, well, that's a rule. And then, is there any time where you're like, well, it doesn't exist. And you just reflect on it, reflect on it, reflect on it, until you get to nothing. So, the guidelines themselves are accessible in the beginning, and useful right away. And as you reflect on them more deeply, it is a greater and greater path to yana, or spiritual discernment. Now, varita in the Mahayana Lojong teachings, there's an aphorism where they say, fuss. And this means that you don't go around making a fuss about the good things that you do. So if you're sitting with your friends and someone is having a hard time and you do bodhicitta for them, and then you say, you should feel better because I just did And they'll be like, okay. Or you're like, you give someone a glass of water and say, I just brought you water. Isn't that great? Aren't you happy about that? That'd be really cool. So if you make a big deal about every little thing that you do, then you're taking this offering of dharma and you're matching it to ego. And then the ego takes over the dharma. And then whenever you're practicing bodhicitta or helping someone or giving someone something, it's not selfless. It's not something that decreases ego clinging, and it probably only partially helps someone else, and probably also really annoys somebody else. So you know, it's like, in the spirit of things, if you're helping someone from a selfish place, then someone's spirit is not nourished by it. So if you give someone some water, yeah, maybe they're thirsty, that's good. But if you give someone water from your heart and from compassion, you're not only giving someone water to refresh their body and to hydrate them and help them when they're thirsty, but you're also giving them compassion, light, spiritual light, and then them. There's this little part in, I think, a movie called Ben-Hur. And in Ben-Hur, Jesus is walking by. And Jesus is thirsty because it's a hot day. And then good old Ben, I think he's a slave or something, and he gives him some water somehow, gives him his water. And is a magical moment, because it was this selfless act. So, it's very important, when you do things, you want to do Dharma all the time, you want to go to Sita all the time, you want to be selfless all the time. Never expect appreciation, never make a fuss, because that's all driving your egotism to be put upon a pedestal. You're like, oh, I did this for you, isn't that special? Right, you don't want to do that, because then your spiritual practice becomes your ego. So making a spiritual ego is not the point of these teachings. It's to really honestly, deep in your heart, always let go. That's why selfless giving and compassion is so enlightening. But if your giving or your compassion ends up being an elevating self-experience, well, that's trouble. Then you're in trouble. So don't make a fuss. Now, I remember back in, I think, 1999, there was this Tibetan Rinpoche who who had a meeting with this pretty famous actor named Steven Seagal. He did many martial arts films in Hollywood. Hard to Kill was his first one. It's a good movie. And he recognized Steven Seagal as a toku, as a he was a llama or a Rinpoche from a previous incarnation. So this Rinpoche who recognized him was someone who was considered authentic and legitimate. And so the whole Tibetan Buddhist community was like, wow, this is so cool. has been recognized as a reincarnated Tibetan master. So in 1999, this Rinpoche, I forget his name, and then this other famous Rinpoche, Silvio Rinpoche, invited him, and then there was this big conference hall with a lot of Tibetan Buddhists, and Steven Seagal came. And there was going to be a special teaching, a Red Tara empowerment, and that was the cause for this. But because Stephen Sikal came, everything changed. So we were there and Stephen Sikal walks in. And it was really funny to me because Steven Seagal, I would say he was acting the part, he came in looking so stoic and spiritual. He's like, I'm so spiritual. It was really funny. It was kind of like the opposite of selflessness and it was a total, if at best we would say it's acting, but it came from his ego. So it was a great experience of his Sagal-ness upon the Tibetan Buddhist community. So the whole afternoon was dominated by everyone's attention to Stephen Sagal, and not to the speaker or the teacher who was doing this red Tara teaching. So the whole Dharma part got overshadowed by Steven Seagal. To the point where eventually after the empowerment that didn't go off so well, Steven Seagal just got up and started talking. So he got up and he's all, well, I always thought I was spiritual, but now it's been confirmed.

1:20:01
But it was really funny,

1:20:02
because he was so spiritually smug. So first of all, there was really just a little bit of light in the room, I would say, a little bit of spirit, but it got overcast, clouded over by Steven's some gallness. So he's like, recognize me, understand my position, you know, and that is making a big fuss. And that is very, very selfish. Now when you make a big fuss, you don't help other people. You help yourself, but in a really bad way. You help your ego. So he made this big fuss where in his mind he was this great, you know, reborn Tibetan master and he was so cool and everybody appreciated him so it was a confirmation. So that was like to him just enforcing ego. And to everybody else it didn't help them to see any truth. It didn't create a better condition of awareness. It was just a lot of focus on an ego. So, don't make a fuss, and observe every time that you do something, compassion, help, conversation, everything you do, ask yourself, am I doing this to elevate myself? Am I doing this for me? Am I creating a self story that's going into my help, to my giving. Because if you are, then you are creating more of an ego trap for yourself. And then, so Steven Seagal eventually got bored of being Buddhist and went on to something else. His next conquest. So, alright, I got my spiritual enlightenment from a past life. Now I'm heading on to a new TV show. So, these are the Varitas. Don't do these things, or reflect on them, because what they tend to do is they tend to not help other people, including yourself. Then there's Karita. when you follow the things where the guidelines say, you should do this. You reflect on it, you do it, and you see from doing it that is a good thing, that it creates a better condition, consciousness. And then you say, oh. Or if you do it and then you say, oh, it didn't work, then you have to, you need to look at your mind more deeply. Say, oh, you know, it didn't work because I was doing it in a certain way, with ego or expectations. Expectations kill. You're like, I'm going to sit down and go into Samadhi. You expect that, and Samadhi is not there. I came into the Sangha because I expect this. And then you look at the Sangha and say, it didn't work because I expected something. If you expect something, there's your first flaw. No expectations. Just experiencing reality as it is. Don't overlay it with ideas, concepts, expectations. So, karita are things to do. And like Steven Seagal, you could be great, but if you're great for yourself, you're making a big fuss. But if you practice karita, you could be great for others, and it creates a big, beautiful experience of dharma, selflessness, and expanding compassion. So Chadwick Boseman, who played the Black Panther in the Marvel film, died last week. He died of cancer, and he actually filmed the Black Panther while going through cancer treatment, so surgeries and all sorts of stuff. So he didn't have a focus on doing it for himself. He explained this in an interview. So he was visiting with these children, two African American children who had terminal cancer. And their prognosis was they're going to die, and soon. And so he was visiting with them on a continual basis. And so they were very enthusiastic about the Black Panther, the first main black superhero. They were so excited about the Black Panther. So they got the double whammy because they had this famous actor, Chadwick Boseman. So they're like, oh my gosh, this is just the greatest thing. It's like the Black Panther and this movie star and he comes and sees us and then they would talk about how excited they are about this Black Panther, this superstar. And he would talk to them. They would open up comic books and talk to him about it and he would talk about filming and all this stuff. And so he said that the reason, his reason for doing Black Panther, for acting, for doing an impeccable job, everything that he was putting his energy into, he said he was doing for those two kids. Because they were so excited about it. And it was like bringing so much light to their lives. So he didn't do this to say, I'm going to be this, thus, the black superhero. He didn't do it for that reason. It was completely And it makes all the difference. You could be a movie star and get the spiritual nod and be all, I'm the spiritual guy. And everyone's all, yeah, I guess so. Or you could be, like Chadwick Boseman, didn't say anything to anyone, depressed. No one knew he had cancer. His close family did. But it's like, he was not making a fuss about his illness and that he was fighting through this illness to do this movie. He didn't make a fuss about his stature himself. He really did it as a selfless thing for these kids. And again, he was recognizing his mortality through having cancer and suffering of cancer for himself. And then he was able to bring compassion to a couple kids, if not So, this is the way. Now I'd like to talk about the fourth gate of compassion. And this is where we open our compassion to all sentient beings. All sentient beings. And instead of having a focus on confession for ourselves, or some other person that we see, or even for a baseball team, or even our planet, we have compassion for all sentient beings in all dimensions, throughout all lokas. and there's a very, very, very high intention and light that comes through that. So when you intend to bring compassion to the universe, a beautiful and pure energy of compassion comes through you. So a little story about that. So eons ago in another loka, way, way, way back. A loka is a universe. So long, long ago in a galaxy far, far away, there was Tara, the Bodhisattva. So Tara was the enlightened one of that time, of that age, of that universe. And Tara had done many teachings, she had enlightened many beings, and she was in her home country, and in this beautiful enlightened society that she had taught. There were many enlightened beings in this society, and everything was wonderful and balanced. And one of her attendants, who was one of her students, an enlightened one, said, Tara, I hear that in the West there are people who are angry. There's a kingdom of angry people. It's called America. Oh, sorry, I just... There's a kingdom of angry people. And she says, well, let's go visit them. And so she and her attendant go there, and the people are angry, and they're trying to fight her and keep her away and everything. And finally she teaches the Dharma, and then they listen, and then all of the beings in the kingdom become enlightened from listening to the Dharma from this powerful, enlightened teacher. And then the attendant says, I hear that there's people in the East who are confused. There's a kingdom of confused people. It's called America. They go on the internet and they get fake news. So she goes, let's go there. She goes to the East and goes to this kingdom of very confused people. She teaches the Dharma and they listen and eventually they all become that she is there and enlightenment is flourishing. And then Tara, I hear that there's kingdom in the north, people are sad, so she goes to the north and helps people who are sad become liberated. And Tara, there are people in the south who are desirous, so she goes to the south, teaches them, they become enlightened. And then the attendant says, okay, so you've helped our country, the East, the West, the North, the South, but what about people in other locas, other universes, other times, beyond our transient experience? How can we help them? Because they're going to have desire, confusion, anger, and then before the eyes of her attendant she became this infinite form. Infinite Taras came from her to every Loka, to every dimension, to every time in the universe,

1:32:49
everywhere.

1:32:50
So she not only brought her compassion to all beings that she could find around her and go to and help, but this is the time where she brought her compassion to all beings in the universe, in the universes of universes, in any time, where there is a sentient being, Tara will be present, I will be present. And so, here we are, eons later, and we know Tara. We're living proof. So when you have this bodhisattva intention, it is to create enlightenment, bring compassion, to relieve the suffering of all beings everywhere. It is what Tara And it is a very beautiful intent and practice. So when you practice bodhicitta, you should practice compassion for yourself, and you're very good at that. You have to be able to relieve yourself of suffering so you can help others. And then bodhicitta is all about

1:34:19
expanding to helping another.

1:34:21
That's what compassion is. And then you go to the third gate, which is helping a great deal of people, and then finally the fourth gate, which is bringing compassion to all sentient beings. Very beautiful. So I'd like to teaching. It is the Lojong teaching, don't make a fuss. It is the Lojong teaching of the guidelines for what to do, what not to do, and to bring enlightenment, to bring compassion, to liberate cross that fourth gate. So all the guidelines, all the guidelines of mind training, they are all geared to directing your compassion to grow, compassion for yourself, for another, final transmission of the Lojong mind training teaching, the seventh point of mind training. And it is ultimately the fourth gate. All of these things bring you to sit up nice and straight. This is an open eye focus on me. We're gonna meditate for one song, just a soft focus on the third eye. And look this way.

1:36:15
And let's begin.

1:36:16
So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Thank you. I Wonderful. Wonderful. Thank you all so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
