0:00:00
Hello everybody, good evening. Why don't we start with meditation. We are going to meditate to one song and practice the advanced meditation technique. Let's begin.

0:00:14
the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so the the the Hello everybody and welcome again newly advanced students. It's very nice to have you. So tonight

0:04:36
Parvati and I are going to talk about strengthening and maintaining your tonal and personal power now that you're on the advanced path. So we wanted to cover this topic because we figured that some of you are asking the question, now that I'm on the advanced path, what do I do with my other practices that I've been practicing pretty much since I started in this school, such as karma yoga and job yoga, strengthening my financial tone-up, practicing martial arts, doing scuba, reading business books, and all that. So on the advanced path, the primary practice is meditation, of course, and the other two considerations, believing you can be enlightened and not stopping for anything. However, we are not just dropping the other practices that we practiced in the beginning and intermediate study, because they can still tremendously benefit you on the advanced path, so that's why we are going to talk about this. I wanted to offer two considerations for this and then Parvati is going to add some more details. So the first consideration is keeping your momentum going. So we got the Kala Chakra empowerment and the Kala Chakra is a structure. It's a beautiful vast plane of enlightened dimensions that actually exists above karma. So in order to reach it we have to let go of as much karma as possible which we've worked on a lot in the beginner and intermediate study by practicing selflessness, working on our impeccability, personal power, and compassion. And then when we succeeded in yoga, it gave us this huge boost that lifted us above a lot of karmas. So now, basically, when we got the advanced teachings, we got high enough so that we could touch the skala chakra with our minds. But in order to be absorbed in it, we actually have to go beyond karma. So it's kind of challenging in the beginning of the advanced study for a lot of us, is that we still have some karmas and they can be heavy and difficult. So as we are going with full momentum, they can be heavy and they can So it's very important for us not to slow down. The beginning and intermediate practices still can help us not lose the momentum. So of course like natural questions arise as we are advanced students about karma yoga and and career and martial arts because these are difficult, right? So you could ask, do I really have to do this still? I'm an advanced student now, my primary practice is meditation. So sure, but these tools are also tools of dharma that can help you in this initial stage in the advanced practice to not lose momentum and not get entangled in your karma. So like Karma Yoga is the beautiful example for that because it's designed for us to face our karmas and it helps us letting go of those karmas. So it's wise to keep doing Karma Yoga and keep doing all those practices that might be difficult for you because you're actually doing yourself a favor. So if I want to give you an example, for example, Karma Yoga, like let's look at an average day in Karma Yoga. Everybody's upset. It can be turbulent. Your Karma Yoga project might be on the ground and it's painful.

0:08:48
Right.

0:08:48
it's painful, right? So you could ask, why do I have to still do this, right? But when we ask these questions and our answer is, no, I don't and I prefer quitting this yoga project because now I can just meditate, then basically what we say essentially is that instead of engaging in a dharmic tool that will help me resolve this karma that I'm facing, I'm choosing to have this karma and create the tool that will help me solve it. So that's kind of dangerous at this point because as I mentioned, our karmas can be really heavy, pull us backwards, and we can lose our momentum like this by choosing our karma. And we can just hope that if I can meditate into the Tala Chakra, then my karmas will dissolve which is true but in the beginning we are still trying to figure this out so it might not work as well as the tools that you previously used. So it's wise to keep using these tools to help you keep your momentum. And Samara recommends actually that we have our first decision point about what to keep or not to keep from these practices around the time when we start to go to samadhi every day. Because by that time we gain a lot of insight, wisdom, and a lot of our karmas melt away. So when we make decisions at that point, then it's more likely that we are not going to make the decision out of reaction and choose a karma instead of going higher.

0:10:26
And of course, you know,

0:10:28
while you're engaging in these dharmic activities, doing yoga and focusing on your career and doing martial arts, it's also important that you have enough time, space and energy for your advanced practice. So you have to keep the balance, but it's also important to keep everything going. So this is the first consideration. Use all the tools of Dharma that you have to keep your momentum going. So the second consideration is mastering the basics. So as you probably noticed, last year at the summer solstice, Samvara gave the advanced teachings to yoga black belts and some strong brown belts. And then at this thesis he decided to give the advanced teachings to most of the SD4s even if you actually didn't get your yoga black belt yet. So you could ask, does my yoga belt rank matter and do I still need to work on my yoga black belt basically, or does it not matter anymore because it was part of the beginner and intermediate study. So a good analogy for this is an actual martial arts dojo. Because like we are talking about belts, so imagine you're in a martial arts dojo and your belt rank is your actual, your yoga belt rank is your actual belt rank in martial arts. As you all know, because you all practice martial arts, in the beginning until you get your black belt, you mostly practice basics. Kicks and punches and some simple katas. And once you're a black belt, you get more advanced practices like, let's say, a black belt kata. So if we compare the dojo to our practice, the advanced teachings would be the black belt kata. So the black belt kata is built on the basic techniques. It's just that it's a lot more difficult because you have to maybe do them in a flow, in a certain sequence, where you can, you have to focus on the sequence as well as the individual techniques. So if you have the basics down, then you have all this in your muscle memory and you know those techniques really well. But that will help you with your advanced kata and it will make it really tight and successful. So this is the same in our study too. Mastering the basics really helps with your advanced practice. And that's why for those of you who are not yoga black belts yet, it's essential to actually get your yoga black belt while you're in the advanced study. And that's because otherwise your advanced practice might be sloppy, because the basic techniques, the basic practices give a very strong foundation for your advanced practice if you master them. And it's very fortunate that you actually got the advanced teaching. It's really good for you because it will help you to go much faster than if you had to wait for your black belt to get the advanced teaching. So it's really great. But the advice is to practice the basics and get your black belt in parallel of practicing the advanced meditation, because it's much more likely that you will succeed in the advanced practice. And for those of you who are already black belts, that's really great. So please maintain your belt level and don't compromise. So don't say, oh, you know, I have 900 points, so I'm making $80 an hour but it's okay because my primary practice is meditation. So don't do that. Keep improving yourself and don't say, oh you know I'm an advanced open water diver and now it's enough. I don't have to go for my dive master, my black belt. Or I had my bow done but I don't feel like doing my black belt. So these practices are very important because they will help you in your advanced practice. So That's the second consideration To master the basics to succeed on the advanced path so I'm going to give it to Parvati now who's going to add some more details. Thank you

0:15:07
We'll talk about the third consideration now, which is the significance of the major yoga belt categories which Dakini started to talk about. Before we dive into the specific ones, it's important to look deeper into the essence of these categories. They're not just things to keep us busy. profound mystical teachings within each one and they develop your being in very particular ways. So similar to yesterday's teaching of reflecting on what you have gained on the pathway, what you have gained by putting an effort into these different aspects of our path. So for example, with career success, if you have received, you've gotten a tech job, you know, what has that afforded you? Take some time to reflect and think about how your life has changed. Has it been for the positive? So it's a nice exercise to do for each of the categories on your own. Regarding career success, Rama didn't say that one should quit their job and then just meditate all day, even when you become liberated. He recommended meditating a few hours a day and then continuing to work and spread the light and Dharma through your work and through yoga. And as we know, cash flow equals energy flow. And it's more important than ever, as Dakini was mentioning, in the advanced study to continue this momentum of energy flow because it helps your personal power and it helps you master the advanced meditation. If your cash flow is low, you won't have enough energy to reach higher states required for meditation. As a really cool example, Sambaro was making $300 an hour pushing his career when he started going into Samadhi every day. And he had his day job all the way up until about two weeks before he was liberated, which coincidentally is when his contract was cut. And there were several points after his liberation that he took high paying contracts. So, for example, when he was in Chicago with the SD3s, there was an opportunity for him to work on a six month contract with Disney at something like $400 an hour. And it was a really interesting data warehousing project and it involved travel and all sorts of things. But he was really engaged in this project in the world but it was part of the Dharma for him. And there are many other liberated beings in our lineage who have continued to work in the world through and after their primary enlightenment. The next major category is financial tonal. As you may know from personal experience, that and other financial stresses drain and scatter your energy, which is really challenging when you need to summon all of your energy for the advanced meditation technique. So having your financial tonal in order is a very powerful way to consolidate your energy. There is going to be a financial tonal presentation in the next couple of weeks, and that will be a really good refresher of the basics, basics and we'll also introduce you to some new ways of looking at financial toenail that are kind of fun.

0:19:19
The next point is the business books.

0:19:22
Business and sangha companies in particular are very special and an empowered aspect of this lineage. Businesses are structures of power and seeing. And when we engage in or create businesses, there's also dimensions of light. These business books offer us many examples of structures that help not only with personal tonneau and ways to understand and run companies, but they have many insights into techniques and strategies like negotiation that can help you in your day job and also in karma yoga. There were many points in my yoga projects when my team referred back to the business books for direction in specific situations. And there may be a point in the future when you, or perhaps someone you know, want to start a project or a company. And having read these books, they'll give you a really solid foundation that gives you a higher chance of success. So the business books provide a very grounded awareness, particularly helpful for practicing our style of meditation in the West. The next category is martial arts. As you know, for those of you who practice, this is an amazing way to develop and strengthen your navel chakra. And because we're also practicing a really high meditation technique with the advanced collar chakra technique, having a strong navel helps to balance the intensity of the advanced meditation and also the balance all of the energy that moves through you. And quite frankly, this is a really intense time that we're in right now. And having a very strong navel helps you deal with all of the craziness going on out there. It helps you stay in balance. And the karma and the grounding energy also helps you with things like day job and karma yoga. On the point of it being a really difficult time, this is especially an important time to take care of your physical body. And understandably, it's not easy to go to martial arts classes in person or to a gym. So even if you're not practicing martial arts right now, it's extremely important to get cardio exercise and move on a daily basis to keep your physical and energy body in shape. And this is going to tremendously support your meditation practice. The next point is scuba diving, which Dakini mentioned briefly. So scuba diving requires absolute focus and impeccability to stay alive, and it helps your meditative focus. And having a higher certification like rescue diver or above also enables you to have much greater awareness of and care for others in super powerful ways. There are countless amazingly powerful stories of, you know, being on dive trips where someone encounters something challenging and another diver with a wonderful awareness is able to other diver in, you know, by saving their life or removing them from a difficult situation. So scuba diving is amazingly powerful in this way. The next subject is karma yoga, which is one of my favorites. Selflessness is essential for enlightenment. Ajahn is always teaching us about impeccability and selflessness. You can do both in Karma Yoga. Ajahn did a lot of business and sales Karma Yoga, particularly with the ST3s early on in the study. He worked with the sales team to try to make sales with our Japanese business partners. He traveled to Japan to make sales and later when we moved to Chicago, he was making cold calls from, we had a war room where we were all working out of. And then we were developing a digital marketing application and he would work with some of the coders until like four in the morning, working on the requirements and the design. So, Karma Yoga is a practice that doesn't stop after samadhi or enlightenment. And Ajahn continues to do karma yoga today through so many activities like advising yoga companies, writing books like the Enlightenment Workbook, Mystic Scuba and Job Yoga, writing with Vayu and so many more things. Karma yoga is a super fast way to see where your hard edges are and brings so many unique opportunities for overcoming the self. And as you engage more in it, it's easier to address those edges. And that is particularly a great opportunity to employ compassion and bodhicitta. On a personal note, after I received the advanced teachings last summer solstice, I had to, you know, I continued with that buddy, the yoga company, for some time, and it got integrated into the acquiring company. And I decided to, for personal reasons, not continue with the acquiring company. And at that point, I took a break from karma yoga. I needed a little break after 10 plus years. And that was great. But after that break, I noticed that I lost momentum in my meditation. It wasn't the same. Even though I was working on some things on my own, it wasn't the same. It was harder to reach the right dimensions in meditation. So I restarted Karma Yoga. I found different projects and what I found is that Karma Yoga is even more profound after you've received the advanced teachings because you can see your self and your patterns and your tendencies and your walls more clearly and at the same time it's easier to let go of them because you are empowered. Additionally, Karma Yoga is a wonderful teacher in terms of learning tenacity, which is the second key consideration of advanced meditation, which is not stopping for anything. When you don't give up, there's a natural progression in the project, whether it's more sales or users or whatever success is measured by in that project. And that natural progression in turn brings more energy to the project and to you. And again, we're looking to maintain your momentum and increase your momentum to help you with the advanced meditation. In the Sangha, there are many opportunities for selfless service. Besides joining a Karma Yoga project as a lead or a yogi or an advisor, you can also tutor Golden State students, mentor ST5s, help the teaching org with special classes like the Enlightenment workbook class, or participate as a dive master in our SCUBA program. So we covered a lot of the main yoga belt categories and the first two considerations that Dakini shared. And it's so in to recap, it's really important to keep your momentum going by mastering the intermediate practices. Get your yoga black belt, continue working on impeccability and selflessness. And when you honestly engage in these aspects, they become ridiculously fun, luminous, and uplifting. So now we're going to meditate one more time. We'll sit to one song. And after that, we'll

0:28:50
And after that, we'll have Q&A. the the the the so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so so If you have any questions, please put them in the chat. So, Okay, I have a question here. Does mentoring students and teaching count as karma yoga? Do you want to take that one, Dikini? Yes, sure. Well, I would think so. So of course, primarily we consider Karma Yoga if you're on a Karma Yoga project, but sometimes we don't have enough projects and I feel like teaching is a form of selfless giving. So I do consider it Karma Yoga. Anything to add Parvati?

0:31:14
No. I guess everything made sense. Oh, there's another.

0:34:37
OK, more questions are coming in.

0:34:39
All right, so. OK, this question is about taking on a lot of karma yoga, because it's also one of this person's favorite things. Any advice on how to find balance while on the advanced path? Yes, I know a little bit about too much karma yoga, so I can start with that one.

0:35:13
I would suggest using more seeing to understand

0:35:18
what is essential for you to do. And also consider if what you're taking on is something that could easily be delegated to another person, or if it's something more specialized that's, or just really specific and important for you to do. And I know that when you're in a situation and you have a lot of projects on your plate, it can be difficult to delegate or think about handing it off, but it does work, and I would encourage you to write down all of your projects and all of your responsibilities in a list and prioritize them. Look at the ones that are on the bottom and figure out how to how to delegate them. This is actually a technique that I worked on with the equity executives. Every week, we were so overloaded that we were always on the verge of going crazy. Literally, I mean, we had fires from our customers and competition and acquisition opportunities. And we were scaling, so we had scaling issues. We had to get funding. We had HR problems. So you can see how things kind of can snowball into a state where things become unmanageable. So what we did for each other as kind of a executive mastermind group was we'd say, okay, it's gonna be okay, first of all. Second of all, you know, we had one person, the person who had too much on their plate, they would tell the other person or take the time to write it on their own. They would tell them, okay, I'm working on, you know, these 10 things and these other 10 things, and then together we would prioritize them. And that became a really great way to both collaborate, but also figure out what's the most important thing. So we have more questions, so I'm going to leave it at that. And I'm happy to talk with you more offline for the person who asked about that. Okay, should we still update the yoga rank spreadsheet if we want to? Oh, great question actually.

0:38:11
So when you are an advanced student, then basically we are not being monitored or accounted for our yoga belt rank. But if you're not a black belt yet especially then it's very good for you to update it even if it's just for yourself because everything on the advanced path is your own responsibility including your yoga belt rank so you don't actually have to share it with anybody but it will help your own practice so you're just doing it for yourself and I think if you're not a black bat, then it's definitely a good idea to keep logging your points to see where you are.

0:38:54
All right, we have a couple of questions about meditation.

0:38:59
Oh, okay, so the next three questions are about meditation. The first one is, on the days when you're unable to do a full 45 minutes in the morning, is it equally beneficial to do 20 minutes and then another 25 minutes later in the day? So kind of breaking it up. Is it hard to do if you can't do a full 45 minutes in the morning and is it beneficial to do more than the allotted recommendation in one day? Would you like to take that one, Dakini? You can take that one. Okay, so you don't need to do more than 45 minutes in the morning and 30 minutes in the evening if you have If you have the time considering all your other responsibilities Then you can meditate more, but it's not necessary for you to Get to where you need to in terms of your progress If you are unable to do the full 45 minutes I would suggest if you do have time later in the day to make up for the rest of the amount, I would do that just as a positive habit. Okay, so the next question is, are there any suggested ways to stay in balance before we get to the samadhi? Any tips on knowing when to ease up? So this sounds to me like a question about staying grounded, which we talked about extensively today. So staying grounded and working on your first attention, your tonal, is going to ultimately with your Samadhi and it will also help you integrate your Samadhi. Before you go into Samadhi, continue working on all the things that we talked about today.

0:41:23
Okay, maybe Dakini, you can take this one. If you have an unusual experience during meditation,

0:41:30
who can we go to talk to? As we were told, these meditations are private.

0:41:40
I would say if you have an unusual experience, go to your teacher, Samara, because I don't think anybody else is particularly qualified to answer these questions, so that would be

0:41:52
my advice.

0:41:55
Okay, there's another question here around integrating.

0:42:00
So there have been other enlightened teachers in this lineage who have offered different classes and workshops, and so this question is around how do you integrate these other teachings while maintaining the right focus on the structures of this school. What I would, well, Dakini, do you want to take this one? Sure. Okay. So what I would say here is that, Sampara is your teacher and the structures that he's given you are perfect for your enlightenment. What you get from other teachers may or may not work for you. You can use your seeing to figure it out. You can experiment to see if it works for you. I have how, you know, how we approach anything on this path. You experiment for yourself. If there's a positive result, then great, it works. If there is not a positive result, then leave it. So I think you need to figure out what from those teachings can work for you.

0:43:30
But I think in general, Sambara doesn't actually recommend us to go to other teachers because we already have everything with the Ka Chakra empowerment that we need for enlightenment. So it's not really necessary to look for anything more than that.

0:43:52
Yes, this is a really good point. Okay, so we have one more question here. Can you talk about using our own discrimination as advanced students versus always deferring to Sambara for questions? Do you want to take this one, Dakini? No, you can take it if you if you have an answer for that. Yeah, I really like this question because I myself noticed at one point that, and I tend not to ask Ajan a lot of questions, but even sometimes when I am about to, you know, I started thinking, hmm, well, you know, what would I do if I didn't have the ability to ask him? And then I just, I started becoming more self-reliant, ultimately. And it, you know, I will still ask, for example, Simbara questions, but I won't be dependent on him responding. have a path in mind and just based on experience and what I think will work. So this is something that you do need. It might take a little time to figure out, but I would start approaching questions that you may pose to him with a pause and a reflection. And consider if he is not available to help you with this, what would you do? And then also I would suggest that there's kind of an inner change that I myself had to make, and I think it has to do with conditioning, honestly, which is that I had to no longer wait for somebody's approval on something. And this also has to do with self-doubt. So, with discrimination, you learn to trust yourself more and stop doubting yourself. You have the teachings, you know what's powerful, you know what gets you higher, so rely on on that more. Anything to add, Dikini? No. Okay, we have one more

0:46:45
question here. I also got one actually. Oh good, why don't you go ahead. There were lots of books assigned to us as advanced students. Are there books that you feel should be read first in priority to help us with our practice? I don't think there's an order in the, so you're talking about probably the lineage books that we got. It's a lot of books and I don't think, so these are the same books that Rama assigned to his advanced students and I don't think he ever specified an order of priority somewhere, also didn't, and I think these books just help us with our practice in general but I don't think they are like building on each other or there's something that we need to read first in the beginning of the advanced study or anything like that. So I usually go for my feelings about books like how do I feel about reading this book right now, and that's what I go for personally.

0:47:44
Me too. Okay, so there's a question here about martial arts. If we're working on improving our martial arts, especially in terms of the black belt technique itself, what do you suggest?

0:48:01
Can you read it again?

0:48:06
I'm not sure I got it. Okay, if you wrote this question, could you clarify? I think what they're trying to ask is, I think this is actually specific to martial arts and not necessarily the advanced practice. But consistency and just consistent practice.

0:48:36
Yeah. I've also found it helpful to make friends with the wrathful deities. One of my favorites is Mahakala.

0:48:47
You can look at the Tanka of Mahakala and, you know, he's just got raging power, you know, streaming out of him, and that can help you connect to your navel. This is a little bit off topic. I'm happy to connect with you later.

0:49:20
Okay, we have a few more minutes, so if anyone else has questions,

0:49:25
please feel free to ask. Okay, I got another one. On the path of getting a yoga black belt, are there some things that you found affected practice and meditation more than the

0:49:32
others or is there a suggested order in which to do the items? So I actually asked Samvara before this talk what he finds important, most important in the yoga bed ranking system. I was like, is there anything that you think that we can narrow it down to for the advanced students and some things that are not so important? And they said, all of it, all of it matters. But personally, and some of you who worked with me on your yoga black bed, you know that I always asked everybody who worked with me to primarily work on their job yoga, like increasing their rate, karma yoga, getting 100 points, martial arts, getting a black belt, meditation, making sure that you meditate like regularly and as expected, and mindfulness. So these were the five things that I always ask people to make sure that they get the maximum points in those because they are really the foundation in our school. And the rest of them are very important too, like financial tonal and business books and scuba diving and all that. They all have a huge value. But these five things are really, to me, in my own practice too, I always consider them the highest priority.

0:51:17
Okay, now we're just getting smiley faces in the chat. So I think we're nearing the end of the Q&A session. Okay. All right. Okay.

0:51:42
Okay, so thank you all so much for joining today, and hope this was helpful for you,

0:51:52
and have a wonderful evening. and have a wonderful evening.

0:51:56
Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
