0:00:00
Hello. Welcome to the Sampara show. All right, so we're going to begin with meditation for one song. Let's see him.

0:00:27
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the so the the the so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So You You guys look different. What's something different? Is it your hair? Oh, it's a hat. Sunglasses. sunglasses. So, I'm dressed differently. You know, I used to dress in a suit when we were

0:03:42
doing Job Yoda as an affect. But I used to live in New York. I worked in Wall Street. I used to wear a suit all the time. So, I wear a suit sometimes. MBB hat. Why not? Or sunglasses. I used to teach in my little Chinese outfit with sunglasses on all the time. Remember that? That was cute Oh, no I don't. So we're meeting together. It's a very beautiful time, teaching, and opportunity right now. A very, very beautiful one.

0:06:52
the first full moon after the solstice

0:06:56
It's an an ancient Vedic Observation and it's called it's called Guru Purva Nima

0:07:06
It's It's the time where you

0:07:10
have appreciation for your guru. You say, wow, my guru taught me all these great things. And even if I don't think they're great, or even if you're struggling through it, once you get to this time of year, and this is something that, you know, I didn't practice. I heard about it a little bit with my teacher, but we were very American, so we didn't talk about it too much. But it has a point of view. The tradition that created it was an enlightened tradition. They know what they're talking about. So it's not something that we celebrated in our school with our teacher. Maybe we did every day. Every day we're having appreciation for our group. But this is one day out of the year, the full moon is a time where students of teachers have appreciation for their teacher. And so in India, this is where they would do some kind of puja for their teacher, you know, bow to them a lot, wash their feet, you know, stuff like that. Wash their feet with milk, I don't know. Stuff. Things where they're like, oh, guru. Now, I have a little bit of a different take on it. So instead of a time of saying thank you and I'll bow to you and stuff like that. I think it's the right time to have a recapitulation, to take stock of what you learned, to say, hmm, what did this teacher teach me? Is it good? You know, like, maybe I'm just going to this teacher for different reasons, but like, how has this affected my life? How has this affected my life? Is it a good thing, a bad thing? What is it? It's a time to have some clarity, to take account for what happened in your life after you met your teacher. So, you know, this is after the solstice, so it's like, hmm, it's a good time. It's a good, interesting cycle. It's not one of the core patterns of our school, but it is something that you can do. You should do. So you should look at your life a year ago, or before you met me, and you should say, what was I into? What was I doing? And my activity in the school, has it helped me? And in what ways? So you have to take inventory of your life and you have to account for what's gone on for you. Have things been working? Are you happy? Are you strong? So this period of time where we would normally have a devotion to a guru, I would rather say, check that guru and say, have things happened in a positive way for me here? Has this guru shown me some truth? have I been able to be empowered? And in what ways? In my life, in my mind, in what ways? This is the way that I would like to celebrate. But I'd also like to celebrate an enlightened teacher, first of all mine, but another enlightened teacher, a student of my teacher, contemporary. And he's a great, wonderful fellow, a great enlightened being and a great enlightened teacher. And so today, there's a lot of unfoldment of him and his energy and his teachings. So this is the time, classically in the Vedic tradition, to have appreciation for Guru. So I always have appreciation for my teacher, but especially this time there's going to be a special dimension of teaching from, you know, Shannon, which is a student of my teacher, and was a contemporary of mine, and is wonderful. So Taylor will come on after a while and share some things with you. But first I have to, you know, very classically pay homage to my teacher. So I've lived a very full and interestingly strange life. And I've done lots of things, met many people, many different disciplines and work and all sorts of things. And I've had, you know, great, you know, parents, teachers, friends, all sorts of subjects that I've engaged in, but the thing that has had the greatest impact on me as a whole is this one weird teacher, this tall guy, curly blonde hair, named Rama. And he, I don't know, whatever happened, my effect with him was that he taught me how to meditate, and it was hard, but eventually I mastered meditation. He taught me how to be mindful, because my thoughts were all crazy, all over the place, whatever, desire, idea, attachment, anger, that's what happened to my head. I just was suffering the karmas of mind. He taught me mindfulness. He taught me compassion, the yoga of compassion. He taught me all of these things and many more. And those things had the most profound effect on my happiness, my spirit, my condition of awareness. I was like, you know, a normal person with my karmas, things that I liked, things I didn't like. But then learning these Buddhist teachings, he taught me how to be free, how to be free from it. And you know, it took a while to work through. But any book I read, any teacher I had, any this and that, anything that I had ever been through. I've gained pieces of information and all that, but he was the one being, he was my guru, who could teach me how to stop thought, how to be mindful, how to have compassion. And I read lots of other spiritual books and things like that. I saw other teachers later and stuff. But he's the one who taught me that. And so at this time, this time to have appreciation for gurus, I have appreciation. appreciation, because that was amazing and wonderful. And I also take stock, like where did I come from before? And I see all the measurements along the way, my belt ranks, as I learned more, got more capable in the past. So for me, my greatest appreciation in my life is for that teaching. That one teacher taught me amazing things. The best things.

0:18:45
That's good.

0:18:46
That's a good thing. This is just a happy little story. So, for you, students, you have to start to, you guys are in the middle, trying to figure something out, right? And you have to say, hmm, well, my teacher's Zimbara, and I don't like him. He wears weird hats. Or whatever. But you've got to start to say, whatever.

0:19:18
I'm a weirdo.

0:19:19
I'm like wearing a suit right now. But you have to say, why am I here? What have I gotten since I've been here? And if you don't like what you've got, there's the doorway to Zen. Where's the doorway to Zen? Nowhere. Everywhere. The exit is everywhere. But this is an important thing. It's a good time to say, is this something good? Is this of what happened in your life since you became a part of this school, since you... It's been at least a year with most of you, from the last cycle to this time, from the last Summer Solstice to now. What is it? Is any little bit of mindfulness or compassion that you could scrape up the bottom of your shoes? Is it good? Are these bad things? Do they affect you poorly? Because then if that's the case, you either need to wake up or leave. This might be a bad place for you. So no, it's really important to recognize your experience, understand your experience. You have to say, is this guru a good guru? Like, are things happening for me here in a positive way? Because you know, you have to be honest. You can't just be religious. It's a guru, so I bow at its feet. One time, I was with Shakti, another contemporary of mine, and we went to this, there was a Swami from India who came to like Palo Alto and rented out this big theater and then tons of local Indians came to see him and he was pretty out there. Like what did he do? He was into music, because he does yoga, and he was talking about crystals and Atlantis and things like that. And I was just, you know, I was there, I was like, oh, interesting. Now, I thought he was a pretty cool guy, but the regular kind of Indian community. They just had some ideas of what a Swami should be like. And he was a little bit way out there. But they all came and bowed and touched his feet, even though they don't like what he was saying. They were all bothered by him. But they did the thing that you're supposed to do according to the religion.

0:22:55
So this is not a religion.

0:22:57
If you say your crystals and your crystal music is garbage, okay. If you don't like it, then good. Then be clear. Be clear with yourself. That you don't like it. It was funny because I was watching all these people, they just had this thing,

0:23:19
it's part of their, what they do,

0:23:21
they go bow and bow,

0:23:23
touch people's feet, even though they don't like the guy at all. I like the guy. Like 90% of them didn't like the guy. 90% of them didn't like the guy.

0:23:40
So

0:23:42
this isn't a religion in a recognition of a teacher, a guru. No religion. Get rid of it.

0:23:51
The

0:23:52
most important thing to have is respect. I mean if you're a bhakti yogi, you know, you can have all this devotion, and it's totally free, and coming from the heart, and that would be wonderful. But at least, you know, the most important basis in our connection with the teacher is truth. And that's why I say in this time where they usually bow at the feet of gurus. Don't bow at feet, or sure, do that. But look at it. If you call that person a guru, what is it? Like, is it something positive in your life? And if there's truth in it, even if you have struggles with it. Because one of the most amazing things about an enlightened teacher is that they're very rare, and they're very difficult to work with. that the highest percentage of spiritual teachers in the world have conditions of power to hold them up to be powerful, and also they tell you what you want to hear, they're selling you. Yeah, they sell you. They're like, oh, I'm going to sell you on this idea. I'm going to tell you what you probably want to hear. Which is okay, too. That might just be called politeness. However, enlightened teachers always get around to breaking your ego, breaking the routine They might be very happy and bright, and you go, yeah, that's good, whoa, this is amazing, wow, I get something out of it, and then when it finally gets down to it, it's got to get down to it. If they're really going to help you to be enlightened, they're going to push the self until there's no self-push. So if you're with a teacher and the teacher's giving you a hard time, what are we supposed to do? Just sit around singing Kumbaya? Yeah, we can do that for a while until Kumbaya becomes yoga, and then it's gotta go beyond Kumbaya. But this is the way it is. You have... the self is a very nuanced thing, the ego. It's so caught up in ideas, concepts, I think this is right, I think that's wrong. And the enlightened teacher is going along with it, I guess, for a while, and then says, what about this, how about get past the routine itself, the whole way that you look at the world has got to change, because that's your definition of suffering. disruptive. I

0:27:58
have a lot of structure,

0:27:59
might have an ashram, a

0:28:01
dojo, a

0:28:03
monastery, and there might be a lot of structure to develop things, but eventually it has to be something disruptive to itself. Well, I thought this, and all of a sudden I see something that just, I don't like it. Wait, wait, who don't like it? It's the self, right? Now this is very important, and I know that we have these hallmark card ideas of some enlightened teacher being some swami sitting on a hill, or some yogi in a cave, or some peaceful Buddhist monks? I've got a lot of stories where they're not peaceful. Like really amazing stories. Where they get the happy Buddhist monk, then gets angry. And then learns something, and then becomes angry. So just because the Buddhist monks hang out in the monastery and all try and be tranquil, they're not. They're not in their minds. They're working on it. But that's why they have a master, a teacher, to help them to get past. The ego always has a barrier. It has a definition, it has a story. The enlightened teacher helps you to get past it. So this is the day where we appreciate that teacher. And so the teacher comes over, might be friendly, might be fun, might be interesting, do neat stuff together, see some benefits, but the whole thing that the teacher is doing to a limited understanding of self. They might be very powerful, take you into the desert, power up mountains, and show you power that gives you a different description of the world so you can see beyond the self. They might be just very insightful, and they go, hey, did you ever wonder, who am I? Who are you? Oh, I never wondered that before. And it gives you insight, or they might be someone full of love and heart, and you go over to them, and you go, I just love you, and so, there's all sorts And this is the time where we appreciate those great gurus to teach you these amazing, wonderful things. But they're always difficult to deal with because anything that they have to show you is beyond the self. So there's a period of them showing you things that you go, ah, I agree, oh, that's nice, and then it gets to what's beyond you. What does beyond you? So they have great insight, they know how to work with a lot of people. My teacher used to say all the time, he's like, I've done this for a long time, many lifetimes. He's like, I know how to work with lots of different soul types, people with all sorts of different karmas. Like it's not just one little Zen school where everyone's kind of the same. Like I've got a broad ability to work with people with different karmic backgrounds. So cool. So it reminds me of a story. So there's a Zen monastery in Japan, and the Zen master, he would teach each student individually, and then he would meditate with them. He wouldn't do a Dharma talk in front of all of the students. He would just sit with an individual and give them a teaching. So, there were dozens of students, but there were these two. There was this one where every time he sat down with him, he would say the most beautiful things and just be so happy, positive, and supportive. And he just gave him all this super positive feedback. And then, there was another one. He would sit with a guy and he would be like, and he would yell at him and tell him all these horrible things about himself. He's like, you're so mean, and why does your eyebrow look all twitchy? You know, and he would just give him a hard time. So this one, so these monks lived together, and this one is like, oh the Master, he's so severe, he's so mean, he's so critical. And the other one is like, what? The Master is the most benevolent, beautiful being I've ever met. And he yelled at them or praised them according to what they needed, what worked for them. See an enlightened teacher has insight, and everybody's different, but they know what

0:34:17
works.

0:34:18
Adidas Amrach and he had this student who was the nicest guy. Everyone was like, he's the nicest guy. He's just super nice. All like totally into the yoga. Just a big heart. No one feels anything harsh from him. And then there's this big assembly of students and Adi got a look across. And he's pretty nice to you usually.

0:34:58
You just don't.

0:34:59
Yeah, I like him.

0:35:00
And then he goes, and he sees this one guy and he screams at him. He's all, you're the worst jerk in the universe. The worst jerk in the universe. And everyone's all like, he's the nicest guy. And he's all, I don't agree, because I'm nice. I've proven to be nice until now. But Adi Rao just yelled at him. And then later on, one of his closer students was like,

0:35:41
why'd you yell at him?

0:35:42
Like, is he any nice? And Adi Vrath said, every 20 lifetimes, like, oh yeah, he's really nice. But every 20 lifetimes, he hits this cycle. He's like so nice until he hits this thing, which is a thing in himself, a cycle in himself, and every 20 lifetimes he's an ax murderer. That's what he said. So we're not just teaching the thoughts that you come up with. You're like, oh, I'm in a pretty good mood. I'm like, yeah, but you're an asshole. And maybe it comes from 20 lifetimes ago where you were an axe murderer. So a teacher definitely sees a little bit more than what people see on the surface. A little bit more than what you think in your thoughts. What you think in your thoughts at the moment are maybe, you know, conditional to the karmas that are happening right now, but you might have been through different situations. If you believe in reincarnation, which you don't have to, I don't, just kidding, so you don't have to, but just imagine if there was reincarnation. And if you imagine how many lifetimes you've had, what if you were through, what if you went through a war where you lost? You wouldn't be as easygoing. Like, we're in a very specific delusion of us Americans at this time. This time is a very different time. A thousand years ago, if you had a previous incarnation, or just imagine that you were a person who lived a thousand years ago, and you were in Persia, or Prussia, or China. Guess what? There were some wars. So imagine you went through a time where there was a major war, where it wasn't like, where it came down on you. And imagine if you suffered from it. Your attention and awareness and the karmas that happen in your being are very deep. And now you're like hanging out on the beach, when you're not supposed to be on the beach. But things are a lot easier. But there's, uh, karmas are deep. So that's why Adidas Amraj, when he was yelling at this student, he was not yelling at his current lifetime and him having a good life in America, being all chill. He was like, you've got some things deeper that you've been through that you haven't handled well. You suffered from and you didn't learn properly. So the enlightened teacher sees a bigger picture. Bigger picture. So we're going to have a story

0:39:27
from Taylor

0:39:29
about

0:39:30
the enlightened teacher. And his enlightened teacher was not just teaching for the moment. What are you guys interested in right now? No, he's teaching the whole thing, the whole way through. I came to that understanding at some point in my practice, my advanced practice. I'm like, I've got these current conditions where I live in Greenwich, Connecticut, doing pretty good in my career and all this stuff, but I'm not just here to deal with the current conditions of my karma. I'm here to deal with all the conditions of life and death. And that's what I love about the Bardo teachings, because it's like, well, you know, in death, all this crap happens. In life, it might not. You might be able to run away from it. For a while, it comes around. In death, you get to face it all. And so I'm like, hey, I don't want to just try to conquer the difficulties of traffic on I-95 down to Manhattan. I want to conquer the essence of suffering and be free. So when Shannon was teaching, he wasn't just teaching, hey we're here in San Diego and guess what, it's kind of hot today, here's how to get out of the heat. He was teaching the essence of spiritual liberation to a student. It's wonderful. So, Enlightened Teachers also are crazy. I I can totally understand. You know, they have a term for that in Sanskrit, Arihund. You guys remember? Like Yogi Ramaswara Kumar? Well, my Sanskrit is not so strong. Arihund. So, there's like a hundred people going,

0:42:03
no, you said it wrong!

0:42:05
Well, anyway, it means crazy in layperson. No, it means that they're so enlightened that they don't practice normal and societal terms. So, one of my favorites is Kunli. Dripakumli, who was a Tibetan enlightened master who did crazy things. It's just great. And he's this grave enlightened being, but according to society, he looked very strange. He said weird things. He looked like he was spaced out, danced around sometimes, said things that didn't make any sense to people. And that's what he did for years until finally people noticed, hey if you just listen to him a little bit, or just hang around him, be around him, then magical enlightened insights come and things happen in your life. So that's why I think that this is the time where we have to not only appreciate the guru, but also say, this crazy guru, this crazy guru. I was around him, he said crazy things, I didn't understand it. He danced around, he looked weird, you know. And then all of a sudden, look at what happened in my life. Great things. So, he was a very, very just open spirit. He was enlightened. He would be around Sir Rav Kumar in Teeru Vinamalai. And he had all sorts of extremely magical experiences for himself. And then he would come, going up on the mountain, Arunachala, and then he would come down to town and he would just maybe sometimes dance, sometimes sit, sometimes pray, sometimes sing. And everyone just thought he was crazy. And I'm like, I don't understand. But then, you know, because he just kept sitting there on the main street doing it, people would be like, well, while I drink a coconut, I can stand by this idiot. And then he's like, whoa, this idiot, he's saying something that changes my life, changes my awareness. So See, as we start to advance, the words don't matter. And the self doesn't matter. And you start to see that there's this raging fire of power, of enlightened power. And I do it like this. The Guru should say whatever. You have to look at your experience. Something that brings you beyond the self that's an obstacle. Personal confusion, ideas, attachments, you know, certain outlook. But you need to look at it over the time. Is it good for you? My teacher used to say that to me. He's like, enlightenment might not be good for you. You may not like it. You know, you have to be very sophisticated, very, very highly spiritual. Because Yogi Ram Sarath Kumar was a homeless weirdo that nobody liked. Dancing around and then sitting there and blah, blah, blah, blah, saying some weird things. And then people finally after a while noticed and they were like, oh, he's amazing, he's wonderful. And he's got the biggest ashram in the holiest city in India. So this time, this very, very special time, is a time of recognition of, yeah, you bow at your guru's feet. But I think the biggest way to bow at the guru's feet is the recognition of, wow, look how this guru helped me. And if you don't have that recognition, you need to find another guru.

0:48:06
Or maybe you don't need a guru.

0:48:08
You're like, nope, didn't get anything out of it,

0:48:11
going on social media.

0:48:12
So no, but this is where it comes down, heart to heart, and past ideas. Because gurus, and not what you think they are,

0:48:35
you think they are something at one point,

0:48:37
Gurus are always looking out for your best interest. But they also have a limitation. Jesus had a little limitation called the cross. It's true. It was an intense limitation. didn't have a cross there might be ten volumes of the Bible and there might be way more teachings from Jews. But nope, someone had to see something wrong with him, don't like it. Guess what? Right? Yeah, the ego doesn't like enlightenment. And the clearer the ego sees it, the more it reacts. That's a general rule. So when an enlightened teacher is not understood, Jesus was not understood. He acted weird. They saw him as a problem and then they George Floyd him on a cross. Do you know what it is to be crucified? It's to be suffocated over your own collarbone because of exhaustion. It's not a need. The Romans were so much smarter than the police in America. Most people see enlightenment and don't like it, never react. And enlightenment acts and reacts in very weird ways. But if you're down with it, you're ready for the game, then it's fun, powerful, and enlightening. But then, when the self gets bothered by enlightenment, why doesn't enlightenment prove that? I don't like that. I disagree. That's a koan for you. That's the time to open your mind. Yeah, so this great teacher, Shannon, he gave his students many koans. As do I. As did my teacher. Because enlightenment is a koan. It's something where the enlightened teacher has to break the routine of the self. The enlightened teacher has to do something weird to break you. Because it's just agreements. We're like, oh yeah, that's good. It's left in the back. Tell me what to hear. Oh sure. Of course you can understand it. Then there's no self-discovery. There's just more self agreeing. Self agreeing, ego agreeing. Get out of here. So, the enlightened teachers, the gurus, they give lots of good information, lots of structure, lots of helpfulness, lots of insight. But what makes you enlightened is that place where you crack, the koan. That's what a koan is. It's like, hmm, a knighted master asked me something that doesn't make any freaking sense! Then you get mad at him, and then you go, and then finally you figure it out and go, ah, now I'm enlightened. Because the koan, that's the design of the koan, it's a wonderful spiritual structure. The koan is to bring you beyond the self. But every single teaching in spirituality is to bring you beyond the self. And the funny thing about the self is it starts to go, oh yeah, this makes sense, okay, yeah, this is good. And then all of a sudden, I don't agree, I disagree. Oh, you disagree. And then I'm gonna get all advaita on you. Who are you to disagree? Because I don't disagree.

0:53:27
All right, lovely. We're gonna take a break.

0:53:29
We're gonna take a break just for 10 minutes and then we're going to come back and Taylor's going to come on. Thank you Taylor so much. Taylor was a direct student of Shannon and Shannon is an enlightened teacher from our lineage and a really special, great one. So Shannon has had a number of students and they've been hanging out with us. They're just great and they're like, hey, this is kind of fun, I'll hang out with them. But they've learned so many amazing things from Shannon and for Taylor and for Taylor, Shannon's students, just to have this time, like Shannon's energy is very, very strong right now. That's why I wanted to bring Taylor in. Because he's an enlightened teacher and he's given the advanced teachings to the students and his energy, his teachings are, I mean, they're just expressions of life and reality and they're coming through.

0:54:54
So, Taylor's going to speak.

0:54:55
Sorry, Taylor, I'm not building this up to be anything big. No big deal. Just be who you are. But it's a very special thing for Taylor and all of Shannon's students right now to listen to this and to connect to this and just to be there in the second attention because it's a great lesson for our whole school. So we're gonna take a break. Thank you so much. I have a joke. Wait, put me back on. I got to do my joke. I just got a little joke.

0:55:42
I'll put you through that wall.

0:55:46
All right. If you understand my joke, I mean, I told some of you what my joke is. But if some of you understand that joke, and I didn't tell you already, and chat, chat it over, say, yep, I know what it is. But then say what it is, because you might be wrong.

0:56:08
I'll put you through that. I'll put you through that. Whoa.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
