0:00:00
Hello everyone. Good evening and good morning. So, it's nice to be able to speak with you today and we kind of switched the times. We had a special meeting with advanced students at our normal Satsang meeting time. But I think this can work out as well. Anyway, let's begin. Sit up nice and straight and we're going to begin with meditation just for one song on the heart chakra. Let's begin.

0:00:47
Thank you. so so so so so you Alright, so today we have a supplemental teaching. So this is, I think, nothing new. There's nothing new. But this

0:05:01
is information about how we are progressing. You can call it commentary and correction.

0:05:13
So like in a karate dojo, they say, look, this is a punch.

0:05:20
Oh, this is a gyaku zuki.

0:05:22
And you go, oh.

0:05:24
And then you start practicing it.

0:05:26
And then at some point, the sensei will come over and go, no, like this.

0:05:30
You go, oh.

0:05:32
No, no, hit them like this. And then there's a correction. So I know that a lot of you are having a difficult time, a lot of hardship, and for some of you, very deep hardship. And this is why I'm teaching about transforming adverse conditions into the pathway of awakening. And gratitude is so powerful. So if you're having a hard time, if things are very difficult, if you're in confusion, in frustration, then And I have a message for you. There's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with having a hard time. It's how we take the hard time. We can take any hard time and we could shut down into fear, doubt, negativity, self-reflection. So there's nothing bad happening to you. No matter how bad it is, nothing bad is happening to you. There's nothing to fix. There's no better way. There's no higher condition. The moment that you're in right now is a perfect moment, So, accept it. You know, that's what gratitude and bodhichitta do. They help us to accept what is and to see the divinity in it. What is, is divine, even if it's difficult. Maybe it's a limited experience. And then you have to be grateful for it. I used to have this Judo sensei, and he would go around teaching the class. And then at some point, he would always come to me, and he would say, Oh, hey, can I come in? And he would get me down on the ground, and he would get me in kind of a hold, side control, for many of you martial artists. He would get me into side control and then he'd say, get out. And so he's kind of on top of me in a hold and I was trying to get out. And I struggled and struggled and struggled. And he seemed to not struggle at all. He was just sitting there. And I struggled and struggled. Now I had been a martial artist for many years and I was doing everything I could to get out of this. I felt so limited and weak. And he just sat there while I'm struggling. And he liked it. He relished it. It was so funny. But from all of my struggles and then teachings that he taught in class and applying them every training, then I started to get better dealing with that situation, to the point where he had to actually use some effort. But sometimes we feel like life is squashing us, like things are really, really hard, it's impossible. But if you use the principles of the Dharma, then you'll be able to learn how to escape. yourself from suffering. That's one of the fortunate aspects of liberation,

0:10:29
that you get out of this suffering.

0:10:35
But you get out of suffering by accepting suffering.

0:10:39
So the big problem is that a lot of you see that suffering is bad. And as a spiritual practitioner, you have to look beyond good and bad, and you have to accept suffering.

0:10:59
You have to.

0:11:00
This is what Bodhicitta is. It's accepting suffering. Not only your suffering, but the suffering of others. So, when you have gratitude and compassion, this is the way of life, the way of awakening. It's being grateful even when something's difficult. Because you know that if it's difficult, that it's great. And then it's going further and having compassion. We start with this gratefulness, gratitude, and then we move forward, compassionately

0:11:54
to help others.

0:11:55
You know, the era of the coronavirus. And there's a lot of hardship during this time. People experience a lot of difficulties. People are lonely. Someone's sitting out there in their own apartment, you know, don't see people. Or sometimes you wish you could be lonely. You know, you're hanging out with your family and you're like, oh my gosh. I've hung out with them enough. People have a lot of frustration. Frustrated that things are difficult, you want it another way. And then there's a lot of anxiety. These are things that everyone on the planet is experiencing. And this is a way where we can connect through bodhicitta. We're all feeling the same things and so through bodhicitta we have connection. But you have to say, I'm and not go into so much self-reaction. I know it's hard.

0:13:35
It's hard for everyone on the planet.

0:13:38
Get it?

0:13:39
So that's why we practice bodhicitta. We practice taking and sending.

0:13:46
We exchange suffering.

0:13:49
We take suffering. And we take our own suffering. If you're always running from your suffering, if you're always in self-defense mode against your suffering, you're closing your consciousness down. If you open your consciousness, open your awareness, and say, I'm accepting life, I'm accepting the suffering that I have right now, I'm accepting even the suffering of others. Then you're able to deal with life. So many people who whine and complain about, I don't like this, I don't like that, they can't deal with life. So meditation, mindfulness, and compassion, and Karma Yoga, Job Yoga, these are the most powerful ways of being able to deal with life. So, we find ourselves in a very difficult time. There's great hardship. sand ores, can't get near people, hard to go shopping, things like that. There's a lot of physical demands, or physical delimiters on our lives. And we could see it as bad. We'd say, oh, I used to be able to go out to the bar and drink a whiskey with Nick Pearson, the bartender or something, right? So, we have to look at it in a different way. It's not that this is a bad time. This is actually a time, I call this our spiritual retreat. You have to be inside, indoors most of the time, this is our spiritual retreat. So that's a good thing. We're not being limited, we're actually choosing to have a retreat. So we look at things in a brighter way. There's a movie, I think it's called, It's a Beautiful Life, or Life is Beautiful. I think it's called Life is Beautiful. Some of you might have seen it. It's an Italian film. It takes place in Italy during World War II. And there's a Jewish father and son who get put into a concentration camp by the Nazis. And out of compassion, the father, gosh, he crazy stuff, like he does antics and has personal power and all this crazy stuff so that he kind of buffers his child from seeing suffering. And he makes kind of being in the concentration camp a game. So that's very compassionate. So, actually, we're going to do this, we're going to watch this movie on Wednesday. Because this is a great film where you're in a really bad situation. You're a Jew in a Nazi concentration camp, right? And then what he does is he very humorously changes it. He changes the whole world for his son. And this is a great act of compassion. One can be transformed with spirit.

0:18:25
And you know, what else are you going to do?

0:18:31
Be miserable?

0:18:32
It's much better to direct your mind to the Dharma. And another thing that's very difficult for people is, like, sometimes it's families or roommates, the people that you're closest to. Now you're always closest to them. So it's like, you might be quarantined from your family or your roommates.

0:19:14
And when you are,

0:19:15
it can be very difficult. I keep hearing these stories. I read about them, I hear about them on the radio. People are like, yeah, it's great. Yeah, I get to be with my husband all the time. And then it's great, but then it's all the time. And how do I get my own time? So a lot of people, um, kind of have trouble with this, you know? And definitely things like domestic violence goes up, and people just have more irritation. because we're too close all the time. And we're not practicing dharma. So there's a natural thing that happens when you're close to a person. Physically close. If you're physically close to them, your aura is always, your subtle physical body is always touching them, touching their subtle physical body. And you start to pick up all the thoughts. Now, if a person is enlightened, they have a very pristine energy field, and their thoughts are very positive. But most people's thoughts are like, I'm mad now, oh I don't like this, oh I'm sad, oh

0:20:53
I'm thinking about the past, oh I'm worried about the future.

0:20:56
They're just all over the place. And when you're all over the place, then you're missing things. When you're all over the place, you're not in the moment, you know, practicing. So it's important to, when you're with your roommates, to be present and to be focused on the Dharma. But in most family and roommate situations, that's not the case. So people's auras being close together too long, they sort of feel all the little ups and downs, they become very sensitive to it, and then it's very difficult for your aura. So people are starting to notice this. So with a husband and wife, someone might just notice, wow, my husband breathes heavy. or just the way he does something bugs me and you'll notice it in a little physical thing but what you're really noticing why does it bother you so much because you're aware of the energy the aura so hmm you might remember in Mystic So there was Michael, right? Michael had, you know, what was he, he was a dive, he sold dive tanks, or rented dive

0:22:39
tanks. So Michael, he would go down in a little submarine, a thousand feet into the ocean, and there was a erges, I think it was called, it was a habitat, it was an aqua station. And he and another diver would live down there together.

0:23:02
And it was one big open space, except for the head, the restroom, the laboratory, the water closet. Water closet, thousand feet under. So I just got a cover at all. And so it was this one room that was 36 feet wide. And they would stay down there for a month or two, I think, maybe three. They'd be down there for a long time. And he was telling me, he was like, oh my gosh, you know, like that guy, he would do this one motion, ruffle in his blankets or something at night, and it bothered him so much. They bothered each other like crazy. Because all they can feel, there's nothing else to feel when you're that deep. It blocks off all the human aura of the world. And all you can feel is that other person 30 feet away from you. So they would get so... I mean they respected each other, but just these little things, the little things. So that's where the aura starts to get balled. So when you're in quarantine with someone, that's what happens. So when that happens, you have to relax. You have to accept that things are difficult on a subtle physical level. You can't be so bothered by the little things. You have to say, why am I bothered by him making this little noise or whatever. It's because you're sensing something at a deeper level. So you have to relax, let it go. Recognize that you have psychic, subtle physical sensitivity and then practice compassion for that. Practice compassion for that. Yeah. Yeah, here in the Dharma Villa, we're doing very well. So in the Dharma Villa, we have, I don't know, it's like 10 of us here. Dharma Villa is this wonderful villa alongside a creek, next to San Pedro Valley Park Mountains. Very beautiful place. And we have a group here of advanced students who are very powerful. I think they're all black belts. by each other. We are a greater community because we're stuck here together. And we could be very bothered. But we're all practicing compassion and acceptance. We're aware of within our aura and we practice compassion. So then our group here comes together in a more beautiful way than before the coronavirus. It's strengthened because of practicing Dharma. It's so beautiful. So our group here comes together and the household, this state, is very harmonious and it's very, very, very beautiful. And I would assume this is also happening in Bodhi Woods. In Bodhi Woods, I think we have over 20 students living there and they meditate together. They're all together there, stuck in Bodhi Woods in the middle of the forest. So they can get together close and they meditate together. There's so many wonderful Bodhi Woods activities and it's a beautiful place. So this should be the way, as well, in Bodhi Woods, that there's greater unity. Now these are two of our, you know, our little ashrams here. And these are places where we practice. But sometimes there's many students who have family. And in all cases, we want to practice the Dharma, where we come together in a greater unity, where this time where we have to shelter in place brings us together. there. And then things are brighter. And if you're alone, then that's great. Then you're like the classic yogi. You're like, oh, I'm going to go off into a cave and sit there. Good. Now you're in a cave by yourself. You're the classic yogi. Yeah. Even though I'm in Dharmavilla, I am kind of like a classic yogi. I know some of my older students are like, Oh, I don't get to see Sambara. And there's the Dharmavilla gets to see Sambara. Well, I just want to let you know, I'm in my room most of the time. I do come out and have dinner with everybody here once a month. But most of the time I'm in my room meditating. I take my meal, I only eat once a day, I eat by myself in my room. So I would have to say that Dharma Villa is doing a very good job. So don't get all jelly that I'm all hanging out here with these guys all the time.

0:29:55
I'm not.

0:29:56
I know.

0:29:57
Here I have a lot of people who are the head of the Sangha org in the organization, managers and things, and they're like, it's not like we're sitting here having meetings all day.

0:30:10
They're trying to catch me.

0:30:12
It's true.

0:30:13
I'm as hard to reach for them as it is for you.

0:30:16
I'm not kidding.

0:30:17
So don't be like, oh I'm missing out.

0:30:30
You are.

0:30:31
Just a little.

0:30:34
Yeah, so when you recognize that you have suffering, you have to recognize this is the Buddhist teaching. You're like, ouch, something hurts. And you don't say oh well something hurts so then I don't like it I'm gonna do it my way I did it my way that's a difficult way it just brings lots of turbulence and construction you

0:31:10
You have to recognize, if you have suffering, yeah, absolutely.

0:31:16
But that's what Buddha taught, right?

0:31:18
Buddha taught that life is suffering. And it is. Confirmation. Wow, Buddha was right. So instead of sitting there and binge-watching Tiger King and eating the three cakes you baked, you should say, whoa, actually I recognize the truth of Buddhist teachings and actually let me follow the Eightfold Path. Let me meditate deeply to practice mindfulness, practice compassion. See, we want to take this time, this is our spiritual retreat, government enforced, and also to save your life and the lives of others. Spiritual retreat. We stay in because it's our compassion. We don't go around getting sick and coughing on people. A lot of people don't understand that, at least in our country. So, but we do. So we're going to focus on that. So this is our spiritual retreat. And in our spiritual retreat, we develop ourselves. So we develop ourselves in our seclusion, or with our roommates. And we develop ourselves in our meditation. This is the time of quiet. Cars, not so many. Airplanes, not so many. We definitely notice around here the sounds of nature, the birds in the morning, and it's beautiful. experience be accepted and don't try to fight it and don't go, oh I should do this, oh I should do that. This is our retreat. Do good things. Focus on good things. For many of my students here in the US, we're working on learning computer programming and this And this is a good thing. So you have to like take an action, have a goal. Like there has to be some, in a time of stillness, there has to be a fire in you. When a yogi goes into the cave or sits by the Ganga, they're not just all, I'm going to go sit by the Ganga. And sit there. Well, I'm sitting by the Ganga. What's going to happen? Inside they are on fire. I'm sitting by the Ganga. I'm sitting in this cave and I'm going for it. There's a feeling of lifting, growing. You have to have, you've got to wake up in the morning with a burning desire to meditate, to work, to do your day. And if your day doesn't have work and it just has struggle, then it's, I have a burning desire to wake up and face I remember it was going to a really tough karate dojo. They gave us a really intense workout and then made us do sparring. It was very, very intense. And I was exhausted when I would come home from the training but every day I would wake up and I'd be like, okay, I go to that dojo, I'm gonna like, it's very hard, but I'm gonna fight, because I know fighting makes me strong.

0:35:24
So this is healthy.

0:35:25
Healthy strength.

0:35:26
So if you're learning tech, good for you. If you're learning tech, it's important to do. And if it's hard, then that's good. And don't give up because it's hard. People give up because something's difficult?

0:35:52
No.

0:35:53
You've got to figure it out. If you embarked upon it because it made sense, don't stop because it's hard. See, here's what you do.

0:36:04
Oh, that's a good idea.

0:36:05
I'll try. And then you start doing it and you go, oh, it's hard. Oh, I don't like it. You know what? I like photography. Maybe I'll just learn photography and go into that, you know, or something, right? Oh, I like finger painting. Finger painting is amazing art. It's much more spiritually high in my consideration.

0:36:31
So no, if you started it, don't quit.

0:36:38
Figure it out.

0:36:39
It's the way. This is a transforming economy. Things are changing right now. And a lot of economists are saying that tech has the edge and tech is gonna change. The way that the tech world is right now, it's gonna go on a big wave, it's gonna grow. So we're teaching you how to surf, surf the tech wave. You're gonna be far better off. As these brick and mortar businesses open for the next year and a half, they'll have 30% of the customers. So it's like a restaurant was able to make a lot of money when they packed this giant restaurant. And now they're all, oh, we can only have 30%. And that might happen for the next year, year and a half. You're like, oh, I was a waiter. How much are you going to make in tips when you're making a third? It, the economy of brick and mortar businesses is very challenged.

0:37:45
So if you started at tech, see it through, don't give up.

0:37:50
Don't give up. So that right action, like in the time of our retreat, is that right action. You've got to, to do it. That's how you develop your personal power, your right livelihood, your proper focus. And then we also have an important thing is our community connection, the network. So it's very important that you're networking. Networking with people who are bright. Networking with the sangha. Networking with colleagues that are empowering. So, networking. making things great between us in our network of consciousness. So this is going online, looking at positive things. I mean, you've got to be real about what's going on. You have to understand what's going on in the world. But positive social networking. And when we have Sangha communications, positive Sangha communications. When you're gonna state something in a Sangha communication on Slack or email

0:39:25
or something like that, it must be right speech.

0:39:29
Right speech.

0:39:30
So it's gotta be positive, can't be weird. And this is something that brings us together. Also we have, we're having a lot of teachings. A lot of teachings. So we have, you know, next week is our official satsang, which is not too different than the past couple weeks. And it's important for us to come to these things because this is where we connect. We're able to connect through sitting together. All of us sitting together. It's very, very powerful. So, sometimes we come together. And there's other teachers who are going to be teaching, and I'm going to be doing more teachings for intermediate students. So this is a time where I'm going to get cool intermediate teaching. So, this is our community. This is where we work together. together and with me is that I am an esoteric teacher. This means that I am able to give transmissions. The transmissions that I give are spiritual teachings that come through, and they are experiences of spirit that are not just you know, kind of connected to didactical consciousness or seeing intellect and having ideas and concepts. So I've got the empowerments to give direct transmissions of spiritual attention. So when we're together on Zoom over the internet, these teachings are transmissions, transmissions of spiritual awareness that is beyond words, but it is something that's very elevating and spiritually luminous. So, I heard on the radio a talk about comedians. So there are these comedians that were frequenting a very famous comedian show house in New York. And now it's closed down. But these comedians that were going there and going there and going there, they were stuck without a job. So the Comedy House opened up on the internet, showing these comedians. And the comedians were really funny, and they loved doing their job. But then they started going online, saying, knock knock, who's there? You know, like doing their jokes. And they were very highly rated in person. And then on the internet, people were like, kind of boring. And the comedians felt the same way.

0:43:53
They were like, oh, I'm boring.

0:44:02
They're like, I got these great jokes.

0:44:04
But the comedians were able to create that magic of humor when they were with that audience. They said, oh, I gotta get all that audience feedback. I gotta connect with the audience. And they had to do that in the physical. So a lot of comedians love that physical connection of people paying attention to them and then being able to feed off of the connective awareness of that moment. So then when they would do their online comedy sketches, then they were very boring. They didn't feel so good and the people watching them were like, oh, that guy used to be funny. So that's how a lot of things are. Now I'm a horrible comedian. However, I don't need an audience. Because the esoteric transmissions transcend space and time. So that these teachings, the inner teachings, are teachings that are in the second attention. There's a deep and profound spiritual connection. So in these teachings, things get very, very bright inwardly. And I don't have to be in front of all of my students.

0:45:37
I can do the transmissions over Zoom.

0:45:41
And in an extremely profound way. So, now when you're online with me in Zoom, it's the same as sitting with me in the physical world. It's the same as if I'm sitting there with you in Paris or Budapest or Iceland. So the most important thing to recognize is to look more deeply. This used to happen a lot. I would sit in the Cowell Theater in San Francisco and I would have many new students, many new guests come, and I would sit and I would teach. And some people would see the light. And some people would be like, I don't know what's going on, this guy's weird.

0:46:54
And now it's the same.

0:46:57
Through Zoom, you can see the light.

0:47:00
Or you can just think it's weird.

0:47:02
But I would recommend, this is as if I'm sitting in front of you. In the physical. Look for that, because then you'll be looking beyond the screen and into the light. And the light is here. are obvious. It's not something that's so hard. It's not something impossible. This is my advanced teaching for my advanced students. So, consider someone who you love tremendously. your mother, your father, husband, wife, puppy dog, right? Now, if you're with them, it's easy. If you're with them, it's easy to take a moment and say, I reflect that I love them. Sometimes you're so busy, you forget that you love them. But if you're with them and you just take a moment, you could say, this is great, I love it. And now you could be on the other side of the planet. And then you could think of them, bring them to mind. And then what do you find? The same love. It's not that it has to be that you're with them. You can have the same love on the other side of the planet. So this is what the esoteric teachings is. It's not based on time and space. And it is love, but different qualities and formations and understandings. So this is important. Now, gratitude is important. This is why I've been talking about gratitude. Gratitude is radical. And if it's not radical, it's not gratitude. If you're grateful, it changes your state of mind. If you can connect with the things that you're grateful about in your life, then it elevates your consciousness. But if you're not grateful, and you're just kind of like looking at things from the routine mind, then you're stuck. So we had the gratitude assignment and many of you wrote beautiful gratitude stories and reflections. But there's a lot who wrote Reflections of Self as your awareness of gratitude. So it's an attempt, which is okay, and you've got to work on it. But it's so sad to miss gratitude and to think that these weird things that you think about that you're grateful for is gratitude. So, for example, what I've seen the most is stories of attachment and stories of desire. So, I'm not gonna bring up anyone's particulars. I'm just gonna give an analogy. When you have a story of attachment, you're like, I'm grateful for this thing that I'm attached to. And that would be like, let's say you're addicted to crack cocaine. I'm so grateful because my crack dealer now comes to me and delivers my cocaine. And it makes it better for me, so I don't have to go out. It makes it easier for me because I couldn't go out. So now he comes and delivers it. He brings it in a little plastic bag, puts it at my doorstep. I V-mo him some money with a memo for crack. So that is, so I've gotten a number of responses where they were grateful for something, they had a good feeling about something, but something about attachment. The other even more, was grateful for desire. So, if your desire wants something and you get it, you are increasing desire. And even though you get it and you have some satisfaction, It's a transient joy that limits your eternal happiness. So my example for this is pornography. So you're like, gotta stay at home a lot, being alone, and you're all, you know what makes me happy?

0:53:04
Internet porn.

0:53:05
Now, I don't recommend this, but it's something that takes attention, gives stimulation, takes up time, you pass the time, but this is something that brings you into the second chakra and desire and it's not higher. Buddha said that suffering comes from desire. So when you're coming from this place of I'm grateful for internet porn because it helps me get through You're going into self-desire. So, attachment and desire, I've gotten a number of assignments where it's like attachment, desire. These are things that bind you. You might be grateful for them. Yeah, my Crack Healer comes. Oh yeah, I can spend eight hours a day

0:54:19
just watching stuff.

0:54:29
You might be grateful,

0:54:30
but that's not something that elevates you. That's something that actually binds you and holds you down. So it's very important to have recognition of what frees you. Now I've had many beautiful stories of gratitude where it's selfless, where it's letting go of attachment, letting go of desire and completely being aware of another's help or the great divinity gifted by the universe, and then that's bright and that's selfless. Whenever it's something about the self, some kind of attachment or desire, then I'm all like, oh, there's some self in there. So I would recommend that you read your assignment and just ask, is there some sort of desire here? And if you recognize that there is, then rewrite it. You don't have to send it to me again, but rewrite it so that you can understand how to take the attachment out, how to take the desire out. Because those Because it does attract. And that's not gratitude. That's self-fulfillment.

0:56:13
And then that binds you.

0:56:17
So we're at a very interesting time, at a very interesting place. And it's time to really practice spiritual practice. Not just listen and say, oh, that sounds good.

0:56:41
But to practice.

0:56:42
I mean, consider in your life. So, how often in your mind did gratitude come? How often in your mind did compassion come? What was the percentage? The 80-20 rule? Which side of the 80 are you? So it's like, it's very important because a lot of you have been having a hard time and not thinking positive thoughts and not being grateful and not practicing compassion and just being upset. And that's not the enlightened way. These teachings are the enlightened way. If you practice them, they work. Even if you practice five minutes a day of sitting and focusing deeply on gratitude and compassion, it elevates your consciousness. And when things get very, very tough, you're having a very hard time, then take a few minutes to really focus on gratitude and compassion. It'll change. Do a test. When it gets really hard, practice hard. And if you do, you'll notice a powerful, bright transformation. But if you're having a hard time, and I know a lot of you are, you're not really practicing. You have a lot of reaction, then you have to get strong, you have to do better, and you can. But you've got to wake up, you've got to like say, oh, I see what's going on right now, I know what time it is, and you have to say, I'm going to work. You've got to get over yourself. So much self in your way. All that complaining and all that nagging and negativity, that is the self. So let go of that.

0:59:29
Focus on the things that make you powerful, even though it's hard.

0:59:33
Do it.

0:59:36
When you come to meet with me on Zoom, bring your best.

0:59:41
You have to sharpen up your attention.

0:59:44
Because if you're like right now, laying down in bed in your underwear with your laptop on your stomach, no, don't do this. So I'm saying this because I know right now there's a lot of people who are in a lower attention. Oh

1:00:10
lower attention

1:00:12
Lower attention Just not a good focus not a good attention, you're not like paying attention Satsang is like meditation the whole part. So when you're just sitting there zoning out and like checking texts at the same time and stuff like that, you're not gonna get it. You're not gonna get it. You're not gonna get the second attention. You're not gonna get the transmission. And you're just gonna like, if you don't get the teachings, you're not gonna do well. So if you want the opportunity to succeed, then at least when you show up to my teachings, show up with a strong attention. Sit up straight, focus. This whole time is a meditation. Still your mind, and then you'll open up to the Every teaching that I give is an esoteric teaching. I'm trained in esoteric teaching. So it's not just the words, not just the ideas, it's in between. It's in between the words. So bring a good attention. Sit in a clean room. If you have a messy room and you're going to sit and meditate with me, your consciousness is going to be cluttered. So you have to make sure the environment is clean, quiet as possible, and hopefully nobody else in the room. Unless they're meditating with you. So we want to make sure that everything's special. It's a special experience when we sit together. You know, you can have candles and incense and a Buddha or something, you know. Some people put their laptop on their meditation altar. This is all good. This brings a special attention to this opportunity. And then when you do that, then you open your awareness. If you don't open your awareness, if you're like listening to me talk and playing some video texting your friend, you will miss everything. You'll be like, yeah, I heard the timbers, I heard some words, blah, blah, blah, blah, yeah, I heard it, da, da, da, da, da. This is not about words. And I am extremely good at bringing the transmission across. But you have to be receptive.

1:03:05
You have to be receptive.

1:03:06
You have to open your mind. Be still, have a clear space, a good tension, sit up straight. The way you dress is important. One very powerful way, after cleaning your space, make sure that the room that you are sitting in for Satsang is clean. Make sure that you take a shower or a bath before we sit together. It's very important. Cleans your aura, refreshes you, makes you clean and ready. And make sure that you dress well. And dressing well for now is up to you. What is well, what's a beautiful dress. I don't care if it's a ball gown. Dress in a way that it's very powerful, very beautiful, fantastic and amazing. And if you do that, it will shift your attention. You'll be able to see the light and get the transmissions that was true because you're making your space clean, you're making yourself the way that you want to experience enlightenment. And you can in any way but make it the highest and it unlocks your mind. If you're just sitting there, no, I'm saying this because it's happening right now. You're sitting there laying down in the bed watching me.

1:05:18
Come on, man.

1:05:19
Come on, guys. Don't do that. They're all sitting up. No, don't do that. That's low attention. You can binge watch your Netflix or something like that, but don't binge watch Sambara like that. Nothing happens. You have to come with a strong first because I have a very strong second attention. So bring your best. Do you remember when, I think it was last time we had Rob giving his second talk, his second story teaching on gratitude? And so he had a big transformation from the first one to the second one. And he was saying, wow, I was having a really hard time. My room was messy. I felt kind of depressed. And then he went through a big transformation, talking to Raja, having gratitude, and then going into a powerful experience in Bodhisitta. And then you see him next, his room is clean behind him. He's wearing a beautiful suit.

1:06:44
That's what I want you to do.

1:06:46
That transformation, what he showed, is what you should do. You should go from being sloppy or just being, okay, it's the worst, I'm talking to stupid jerks. Right? You have to say, no. If you take this time, it's a time that is special and unique and powerful, where in this time there's powerful teachings to transform dissatisfaction into enlightenment and to change your life and look at life and the difficulties of this moment in new ways. Then you can change, you can transform and you can clean up. You know, this is nice. Like sometimes it's nice to dress up. I know we're all sitting indoors, but when we come together, let's dress up. Maybe it's your beautiful spiritual outfit. Maybe it's your, you know, you wear a suit. When you wear a suit,

1:07:57
like if you were going into a job interview,

1:07:59
it's a very high turnout, and then it's going to open you up to the second attention. So, my teacher had us wear suits a lot. Our meetings, our satsangs were we would all wear suits. So, a suit is a very strong thing. But if you want to do a very expression of clothing or something spiritual or whatever whatever it is to you that is special since you're at home alone or with your family or roommates whatever it is dress well if you don't know how to dress well there's a sit-in in the Hungarian Sangha her name's Lakshmi as well as Lakshmi here, but she's in Hungary. And her whole life has been as a stylist. And so she's done in-person meetings, consulting very often with people on how to have the proper attire. And the way that she does her stylist consulting is amazing. And many of my students have had her service, and it's helped their clothing, their wardrobe, their tonal in impressive ways, myself included. So I follow her practices all the time. And I have, oh, she also, so now that there's the coronavirus, she's switched to online services, but I've also gotten many direct pieces from her. So she'll either shop for you, find the right thing, get it to you, or she can make custom things. And so she has done that. I'm wearing her pants right now, as you can see. So if you're clueless and confused about how to have the proper tonal, then you can seek out Lakshmi. And I guess we'll send a link about her and so that you can see what her current online services are. So this is bringing a strong attention. It's very important. If you want to be able to connect to the second attention, you have got to bring to these meetings, or even if you're watching a recorded video, you bring to it the proper first attention. And then you can get extreme power. That's the Tarot teaching. very much. Now we have a very special opportunity and this is Vayu. So Vayu is our musical collaboration. It's our band, it's the Sangha band where we make meditation music. And so Vayu has been making wonderful music and we've been working for a pretty long time on the India album. So the India album is complete and it's been through wonderful iterations and reiterations and now it's ready. We're going to introduce the indie album three songs at a time over the next few weeks. So we're going to listen to the first three songs tonight and we're going to not only listen to the songs but we're going to hear a little bit about what was the motivation, where did the music yogis come from when they were learning about how to create these songs and their experiences doing it. So I'm going to say adios muchachos and we're going to switch over to Chi, and then we'll come back to you. And then I'll just say, buenos noches. Okay, thank you.

1:13:01
All right, my spotlight, here we go. Hey, everybody. Good evening. Good morning. My name is Chi.

1:13:07
I've been a Buddhist monk for 11 years now and doing music yoga for a little over six. So I'm very grateful to be sitting with you tonight doing probably my favorite thing in the entire Sangha, which is introducing an album. Very exciting, very cool, and very awesome that we're getting to sit together So you can see my screen right about now. So the album that we're releasing is called India Dream. And in this lovely little picture here, which is the album cover, you just get a little taste of some of the dimensions of India that we attempted to reflect in the album. So like Sumbara mentioned, I'm going to talk a little bit about the album, a little bit about each song, and we'll meditate to the first three. These are going to be all three songs on the navel, and it's going to be fun. So some of you are very new, and like Sombhara mentioned, we have a band. And like many things that we do in the sangha, it's taking something very ancient, like our Tibetan friends up here, playing their horns, and doing it in a modern context, like this recording studio down here. So I'm a member of the music team, but I'm not the only member. There's about a dozen people that contribute very regularly to the team. And the intention is really to do one thing, which is take dimensions of light from a place and bring it to you. So the idea is if we can go to a place like India that Simbhara calls a spiritual Disneyland full of all these dimensions and beautiful qualities of light, having meditation experience there, connect to that light. And if we can put that in a first attention container, like a song, then when we meditate to that song, it's like giving you a direct experience of that light, without having to travel all the way to India to do it. So it's a really special, magical thing, and it's something our sangha's been doing for a long time. There's actually a very rich tradition, which I'll talk a little bit about, of music yoga in our sangha. Very cool thing. I'll mention one other thing about right now that's especially exciting, and I think just the coolest part for me. So in addition to the songs connecting to the dimensions of India, there's something cool when we all get together and listen to it, which is that not only is Sambara connecting to the dimensions of India and really helping to bring them out. But you have probably 85 to 100 people on this call right now who've all been to these places that we're gonna be seeing. So they're also gonna be connecting in their minds to these places in India. And it's gonna be probably easier now than ever for you, even if you've never been to India, to really just connect and feel what it's like to be there. So without further ado, we'll start our journey with Arunachala. So this guy in the picture is Arunachala. It is, you could say, the spiritual engine of India. So it's this very, very powerful mountain in South India, and there's a whole town that's built around it. But this mountain is really the epicenter of spiritual activity of South India. It was most famously Ramana Maharshi lived there for many years on the mountain, around the mountain. But just thousands of yogis, sadhus, sages from across the ages all gravitated toward Arunachala because it's this powerful spiritual center. And they say locally that this mountain isn't just a representation of Shiva, but it is Shiva. And in India, Shiva is like the divine manifestation of energy. And this mountain is the epicenter of that. So this song, the first song on the album, and a very strong naval song, is really trying to capture that dimension of power in the mountain. And there's something very specifically, this picture in the middle, which is on the cover, was taken very early in the morning. Many of the groups that went to India, they actually climbed to the top of Arunachala. Now, with our group, it was closed. So, we instead circumambulated our Anashalas. This little map on the side here is a path you can take to walk all the way around the mountains, about a 14-mile walk. And they say when you do that, you achieve enlightenment in this lifetime. So, we didn't skip that. And there's a part of the song, a little Easter egg that I wanted to share also. So, Jyoti, one of our guides in India, he picked us up at 5 in the morning to start walking on the mountain. And you know, we're sleepy, we're getting up, we're kind of walking. And he stops everyone very suddenly. And he just tsk tsk. And he points to himself and he just starts chanting the mantra of India. Om Namah Shivaya. Om Namah Shivaya. Over and over again. He has us do it too. And then after we've done it for about 30 seconds, he smiles and then we keep walking. His point being, don't just start walking, walk with some intention, walk with some attention as we're doing this very spiritual journey. Very powerful moment. So there's a part in the song, the bridge, you'll hear an ohm that'll resonate through. That's actually Jyoti doing that ohm. So we brought him into the song as well. Last thing I'll share about the song, there's a very strong dimension of sangha unity in this. So in our India trip, we had five generations of our sangha all together on the same trip. It was amazing, like, this, the huge range that our sangha has. And on this song, we had five dimensions of the sangha work on it, or five generations of the sangha work on it. So the original idea was an idea Samvara hummed into his phone, we sent it to Tara, we transcribed it into music, who sent it to me, and I worked with a team of ST5s to develop the song. And then we were able actually to send it to Bodhi. So Bodhi was a member of the original music team and he contributed the guitar to this. So this is five generations of our sangha, all reflected in the song, all reflected in this place of power. So without further ado, we'll meditate on the navel to our Anācala.

1:19:10
So, I'm going to play a little bit of it. so Oh, so Lovely.

1:21:52
For our next location, next song, this is a song called Great Ganga View. So on your left, you have this enormous, luscious valley and the Ganga River flowing right through

1:22:36
it.

1:22:37
So this is one of the central hubs of our India trip. This is a town called Rishikesh. It's in North India. And you can think of it, it's a lot like Yosemite. It's just this grand, grand valley and just greenery everywhere. Very beautiful place and it has this very epic scale. And right through the middle of it, there's this beautiful power line, which is the Ganga River, the holy river of India. So this view and the expansiveness of it, it also fits on a central theme of the album, which is this expansiveness. You know, this album came at a time when our sangha was expanding very rapidly. We grew three times in size and we were going to a new place of power. India wasn't one of our traditional places. So this is this expansiveness which is manifested in Rishikesh and especially this view looking over it. So in addition to capturing you know the beauty of this place, we really wanted to capture what the start, the sound of a start of a great adventure sounded like. And there was a particular moment, we would take these cabs everywhere. And in the cab with our cab driver, where every time you left the city, you had to drive up the side of one of these hills. So you had this just epic view of the whole valley. And right as we're driving over, our cab driver's cell phone went off and he had this amazing magical ringtone that went, dun-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na. And it just, it felt like being transported into a movie, because it just took this already epic view and then made it cinematic. It brought in the magic to it. So the whole trip, I was sitting there with my cell phone, the cab driver spoke no English, and I was just trying to wait for his phone to ring so I could record it and then recreate it in this song. We got it. Almost in the last day, got enough of it so we can make this song. So what opens the song, this bell sound, is this cell phone ring that inspired it. And in addition to capturing this view, there's also a dimension shift. So halfway through the song, it shifts from the daytime dimensions to the dimensions at dusk, which are the pictures on the right. These sunset views where the sky is orange, that happened in India a lot. This is amazing magical quality but there's this point at dusk where the power just got a little bit stronger and tried to capture that in the song as well. So here is Great Ganga View.

1:25:05
So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the the the the so so so You Lovely. So for our last song of the evening, we'll listen to Maha Ananda Siddha. Where

1:26:49
do you even begin about Maha Ananda Siddha? So the first experience you have with Maha Nandasita happens miles before you arrive at his ashram, because you see this on the hillside. And what that is, is his temple that he's constructing in the middle of South India, really in the middle of nowhere. And you can see it from miles away, because it looks like a James Bond supervillain fortress. And this is something he's been constructing for the last 14 years. Maha Nandasita, the gentleman pictured here, has a little bit of a wild appearance. But he was a wealthy turmeric trader and he was using a lot of his riches to build Shiva temples around India. And one day Shiva appears in his bedroom and tells him, hey I need you to move to this mountain in India, started a temple, and oh by the way, stop eating food and you know, you're going to get all your prana directly from the fire and sell all your possessions and belongings. So he did it. And 14 years ago, started building this temple around a very small temple that has just grown by leaps and bounds. It's enormous. This is probably 1 20th of the size of this temple. It just goes on forever. And Maha Nandasita, he's alive in the flesh, he's walking around the temple and you can go see him and interact with him. He doesn't speak, I think he does speak English, but Shiva told him to only speak in the native language from now on. So you walk up to him, you meet him, you have this experience with him and underneath this very crazed appearance, it's very easy to feel this depth and stillness that emanates from them. And that's what the song is trying to capture too. So, sort of that next level down after you see him and go, whoa, and you feel the stillness that he represents. There's a picture on the bottom right here. That's his inner sanctum of the temple. And carved in the wall, these stone Buddhas. There's 18 of them and it's said in some circles the Maha Nanda Siddha is the 19th Buddha in this lineage. So there's also something that's very like regal and royalty feeling about him that we also wanted to capture in this song as well. Last thing I'll mention about him is it's impossible to tell him apart from his temple because his temple, even as you're walking around it, and he's nowhere near you, you just feel his presence emanating everywhere. And for many of us on the trip, there was a very strong awareness of the yogic success power that this temple represented. Because it took all these disparate parts and a lot of times totally different architecture even, but it combined it in together in this one just amazingly magical place, and it all just worked somehow. And there was something in seeing that and being there and experiencing it that made that just more exciting. It gave us a living example. It was like a super charged Bodhi Woods workday feeling. That feeling when you just, it all comes together somehow. So it was a very beautiful part of that too. He also said something to us. He spoke one thing in our translator Saravanan, who's on the call, hi, translated for us. He really liked Tiffany in our group so he looked straight at Tiffany right at the end and he said something and Saravanan translated and his message to Tiffany and I'll repeat for our sangha was be like a king. So we'll end with meditation on the navel, Maha Ananda Siddha.

1:33:13
You So so so Thank you. It was wonderful meditating with you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
