0:00:00
Hello everyone. Good evening and welcome to the Advanced Teachings. So I've invited the intermediate students to be a part of the Advanced Teachings because it's fun. Yeah, tonight I was considering what to teach the intermediate students, and something came to mind in the Bodhisitta, but then it goes very fast. So I thought that it would be nice for the intermediate students to consider the intermediate aspects of the teachings and also to see the advanced aspects. We're going to begin with meditation. We're going to sit just for a few minutes in silence and for intermediate students go ahead and focus on your third eye and for advanced students you'll do the advanced meditation practice. All right, sit up nice and straight. And let's begin.

0:01:23
You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you I'm going to go ahead and get started. Oh, I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. I can do it. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10. And I'm going to do that. Start. And... Go. And... Go. And... Go. And... Go. And... Go. And... Go. And... Go. And... Go. And... Go. First, the mission. The mission is to teach our young people to listen. of or I'm going to go ahead and get started. Okay. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, I have stories from all years, years of my life. So, all of the stories that we've seen so far, we've seen all kinds of things. Okay, so tonight I'd like to talk about the Trikaya, Sanjin, the three fields of enlightenment.

0:08:29
of enlightenment. So these are three expressions of enlightenment and that's why I wanted to talk about it to the advanced students but it's also something addressed in ultimate bodhicitta in the bodhicitta teachings. So it's both intermediate and in there. So the the Lojong slogan is, see confusion as the kayas. The protection of emptiness is unsurpassed. Isn't that interesting? The protection of emptiness is unsurpassed. So kaya means field, body, or dimension. And in Tibetan Buddhism, they teach, well it depends where you go, there's a lot of different types of, or different sects of Tibetan Buddhism. So in some Tibetan Buddhism they say there's two types. In some they say there's three. We're kind of like in the three school. Then there's some schools that say there's four, and then there's some that say there's five. And I'll explain that later. But it's good to start off with three. So the three kāyas. Now in Sutton Buddhism they also break it down in a very simple way. They say that it is the three bodies of the Buddha's enlightenment, and that the sambodha-kaya is the spirit of the Buddha's enlightenment, and that the nirmanakaya is the incarnation of Buddha's enlightenment. And that's a very simple way of looking at things. I like to look at it in a higher way. The Tibetans always, you know, any of those like Tanka pictures that you get, they always say that one of those, that deity, that god, that Bodhisattva, is related to one of the three fields of enlightenment. So they say that Vairajana comes from the Dharmakaya. They say that Manjushri comes from the Sambholakaya. And that Buddha comes from the Nirmanakaya. or expressions of enlightenment. And I look at it in a way, from my experience, as levels. And also, my teacher taught it this way. He taught that in the advanced teachings there's support for attaining the first three levels of enlightenment. And then once you're enlightened, there's even more enlightenment. But that's up to you. But in the support of the advanced teachings, there's the advanced teachings to get you to the first level of enlightenment, the Dharmakaya. The second level of enlightenment, the Sambhogakaya. And the third level of enlightenment, which is the Nirmanakaya. So this is something that we have support for. being levels of enlightenment. And that's my experience. Now in Zen they just say, oh yeah, Satori, boom, instant enlightenment. And you don't know if that's just like a yana or a samadhi or if it's really enlightened. You know, I love reading about all the Zen stories. You know, the master hit him in the head and said, what's that? And then he goes, oh, they realize it's enlightenment. Wow, okay, cool. So, but the Tibetan Buddhists, they break it down to different levels of enlightenment. And there are different levels of enlightenment. You could say it's like You know, you get a black belt, and yeah, you are proficient in that art. But then if you have a fifth degree black belt, then that's a higher degree of power and proficiency. So there's different levels of enlightenment. So the first level is the Dharmakaya is called the body of truth, the field of truth, the absolute dimension of truth. It is the clear light of reality. It is an obscure awareness, Empty of all ideas, empty of all concepts, empty of everything. It's perfect emptiness, stillness. There's nothing substantial, there's nothing born, there's nothing unborn. There's no beginning, no end, no middle. It is the diamond, clear, multifaceted mind of enlightenment. So the Dharmakaya is the first attainment. When you first start going into the Sabha Koka Samadhi, you start that appears. And the light is the light of reality. Unobscured, direct, no modifications, nothing in the way. Direct awareness of reality. That's what you experience in the first Samadhis, the Dharmakaya, the worlds of perfection, light, clarity. So the Dharmakaya is a very, very, very high truth. And it's a truth that you come to from meditation. And in that truth, you don't exist. Nothing exists. It's completely empty. Everything that arises is a phantom. Everything that arises isn't real. From the awareness of the Dharmakaya, you can look at reality, physical reality. Ten thousand dimensions of states of consciousness. And you can see that none of them are real. Now, if you look at this life and say, oh, this is real. I'm sitting on a real chair. I'm looking at a real computer. You can say anything's real, but from the awareness, the point of perception, being one with, submerged in, absorbed in the Dharmakaya, there is only emptiness. There is only emptiness, truth, and the clear light of reality. All phenomena that appears is empty of true being, of true existence. Kind of like a dream. Let's say you're in a dream and in the dream there's a flood that comes and you're gonna get knocked into things and drown and all this stuff right so in the dream unless you're a strong dreamer you usually think the dream is real you're like oh my goodness there's a flood taking me away I'm gonna die so if you're in the awareness of the illusion, then you're stuck in the karma of that awareness. Then you would wake up in the morning and say, oh wow, it was just a dream. That flood wasn't real. So awareness of the Dharmakaya is waking up to the fact that this, what we call physical reality, is also not real. It's like a dream. But you got to be careful because it is, your mind is in this real world and this real world is not a real world until you know that it's not a real world, it's a real world.

0:19:30
It's true.

0:19:31
driving on the big island of Hawaii. And I had left my students, they were senior students, I left them in a lava tube cave for a few hours, more like six hours. And Mandala and I, we went and met with another enlightened student, Ishvara. Then I said, okay, it's time to go back and see if they're still there. And on the way back, Mandala was saying, it's funny how this world is, she was in the Dharmakaya, this world is an illusion. And then there was a car speeding behind us, tried to go around us, they lost control and crashed. And I'm like, yes, it is an illusion. I'm like, but there is a harsh reality to that illusion. All of this phenomena that we see is an illusion. But if you're in the place of the Dharmakaya, it becomes the protection of emptiness. It's different than just, oh, it's an illusion, then get hurt. There's a wisdom. There's an awakening to greater truth, to greater power. The protection of emptiness comes from the knowledge of the Dharmakaya. But everything that arises, do we see, isn't real. When you're in that enlightened awareness of the Dharmakaya.

0:21:41
It's not real.

0:21:44
Do you think it's real?

0:21:46
It's not real.

0:21:48
But you have to, it's a radical transformation of attention to be in the Dharmakaya. So this is a process that we go through. We start to sense it, start to feel it. Something in our hearts and our minds draws us towards it, the dharmakaya. We see it a little bit in meditation with our teacher in the desert. We start to get a sense that life isn't as fixed, that there's more opportunity and then we can change. Everything that arises in this world that you see is an illusion. It's not real. The Dharmakaya is like waking up from the dream of the flood. I guess it culminates in an experience where Don Honero goes into the Dharmakaya. He attains the Dharmakaya. And then, you know, he's sitting out there somewhere meditating in the desert or something. And then he decides he wants to go home. So he starts heading back to his house. It's like a long journey, and he's asking people on the way. He's like, I thought I knew the way home, but how do I get back to Ixlin? People say, oh, it's over there. And he's going back and going back. Then, uh, finally like gets there, and he's like, where's Ixlin? He goes back to his hometown and he just sees it not as his hometown anymore but as an illusion that has arisen. And then he finds this little boy. The little boy says, oh no I'll take you exactly to your home. And he says, okay, I'll follow you. And he's following this little boy, and the little boy's taking him home. Then he looks at the boy and he's like, this boy is just a phantom. And then the boy takes him home, and the home is not even his home. So he was in the Dharmakaya, seeing everything that arises as an empty form, something that's not real. So even though he was in his hometown, he didn't recognize it. It wasn't real. It was just something arising. And even though the little boy was his son, and he took him to his house, and he just saw the boy as a phantom, not a real thing, and his home as not real. He had no attachments to those things, and he was in the Dharmakaya. So he saw reality, that everything that arises is empty, even the things that you thought you always knew were real. The mind of Dharmakaya is like a mirror. If you hold up a mirror to nothing, it reflects nothing. That's the Dharmakaya. But if you hold up the mirror to the world, and just show that mirror all around to everything, if you show everything, you reflect everything in the world to that mirror, you'll see everything in that mirror. Everything will arise from that mirror. You can see everything in the mirror by itself, without anything to reflect, reflects nothing. That's the dharmakaya. The dharmakaya is where there's nothing, emptiness, no concept of concept. No yin, no yang. No this or that. And in that state of consciousness, everything is a powerful condition of awareness. Very, very, very high. Unrestricted reality. And in that experience, there's nothing, but you see everything arise. It all comes, it all arises, but you see that it's empty. To come into the dharmakaya, there's another slogan.

0:28:18
This is, I guess,

0:28:21
advanced-intermediate. It is a step that brings you to the Dhammakaya. And there's a slogan from the Lojong teachings,

0:28:36
and it is,

0:28:37
Lest in the nature of all, the basis of everything. So, this means have no attachments. No attachments to anything. And to let go of all ideas, let go of all mind concepts, let go of all feelings of I, let go of all emotion. emotion, and just to feel stillness in the nature of life, the nature of being. The nature of being is called the laya. It's beyond the self. It is the natural condition.

0:29:40
Just the natural condition.

0:29:41
And then once you're in that natural condition, then the Dharmakaya eventually will come. It doesn't take too long, once you get to the natural condition. So the attachments are the senses. And in Tibetan Buddhism, they have more senses than we have. So there's seeing, hearing, feeling, smelling, touching. So these are physical attachments. People start to create attachments, deeper attachments based on these things, these physical interactions with the world. And then in Buddhism, even in Theravada Buddhism, Buddha teaches that there's a sixth sense. the mind, mind activity, thinking, mental concepts, mental modifications. And these mental views are influenced by the five physical senses. And then there's the seventh sense is the I, the ego. And the ego clings to these ideas, these mental modifications that are drawn from the five physical senses created into mental abstracts and modifications. And then the I, the ego, creates connections with that. And it believes the world is a certain way. And it melds, in this I sense, it melds the emotions with these mental constructs. And this is what creates attachment, fixed views. So to experience alaya, the natural state, we have to let go of all of ultimate bodhicitta.

0:32:29
So in ultimate bodhicitta, we let go of all these attachments

0:32:33
and we can just sit in the natural state. Just being without grasping. Just being with no mental subterfuge, defensiveness, no contest of ideas, of worry. Just balance. Then you enter a condition beyond attachment, and you enter into a layer, the natural state, sitting in the nature of all. This is the basis of everything, sitting in the nature of all. When you have no attachments to the senses, to the mental views, to the eye attachments, then you can sit in a very natural state of being. This is a state of being beyond thought. And when you sit there for a little while, a little while, eventually the dharmakaya comes. In its time, your mind becomes still enough, your being becomes still enough. And then you know like you were like in the water kicking up a lot of sand, and then if you become still, the sand all settles down, and then you can see perfectly clearly. That perfect clear seeing is the Dharmakaya is not some other place. It's not over there. It's not on top of some mountain. It's not heaven. You know, the Dharmakaya is here, now. The dharmakaya is directly in an awareness that you ascertain. The dharmakaya is something that just unfolds in front of you. And you say, oh this is always there, it's like waking up from a dream. So I'd like to give a teaching on the Dharmakaya. And this transmission will be a meditation. We'll sit for one song. just still your mind. If it helps you have a soft focus on the third eye and if it helps you look here to me because I will be demonstrating it. Even over through the light. All right, so we're going to sit for one song and this is the experience of the Dharmakaya. Let's begin. you You

0:37:29
Thank you. you So, Oh, the the the the the the the Thank you. It worked. Okay, good. So next I'd like to talk about the Sambhogakaya. My favorite. So the sambhogakaya is called the field of ecstasy. It is the subtle body of limitless bliss. a realm where there are such highly enlightened beings that they only teach Bodhisattvas. But it is a condition of ecstasy, a condition of bliss. It's like when you get to the top of the spiritual mountain and then you experience that what you're seeking. The Sambhagataya is said to be not in this world. It's said to be an experience of complete spirit that has nothing to do with physical

0:40:43
reality. Nothing to do with this physical reality even arising. But it's a condition of spirit that is blissful, the highest point of spiritual attainment. It's kind of like if you start off to hike or trek the Himalayas. You start off in this little town called Jiri in the foothills. And then you gotta go over the foothills, and the foothills, over the foothills, and the foothills. And you get to the Himalayas that are way up a mountain, go down a mountain, up another mountain, down another mountain. And eventually, you get to this place deep in the Himalayas where you go to a high mountain pass. We call it the pass. When you get to the high mountain pass when you come up the hill in between the two peaks and see Himalayas in front of you. All the... well as far as you can see. High enough walking that trail to get to that high pass where there's still two tall mountains in front of you. I mean, on your side. But you see in front of you the Himalayas, mountains spread out for miles and miles. And you're at this high point where you can see all of the mountains. That's the view of the Sambhogakaya. Now, while you're hiking up the mountain, going through the foothills, you have a limited view. You don't see it all. I mean you see some and it's nice on the way. Enjoy the way. But the Sambhogakaya is that view. It's to be on a Himalayan peak or at the high pass where you can see everything. And when you see it, there's just the highest ecstasy. There's nothing higher. It is the ecstatic bliss of enlightened consciousness. Enlightenment has one quality which is perfection. The view of perfection, the experience of perfection in life. I mean sure there's a lot of life that sucks and walking up the mountain you don't have the same view even though it's the dharma, you're practicing the dharma, you're getting there, you're working on it, but at some point you get there, to the top of the mountain, to a high path. And when you get to that high path, that's what you were there for, to get to that high point, to have the complete view. So the Sambhogakaya is that bliss experience of the highest experience of light And in that high experience of enlightenment

0:48:07
You feel good

0:48:09
you feel perfection you feel bliss and ecstasy and Everything works out Everything is perfect. Everything is, in a way, not physical. It is completely a manifestation of Spirit. So this is a higher enlightenment. If you sit in meditation and you go into the Dharmakaya, that's the first enlightenment. But then what grows out of that, just like the Dharmakaya comes out of the experience of alaya, which is meditation unattached from Self, then you go into the samadhis of the Dharmakaya and then the enlightenment of the Dharmakaya. And then out of going into the enlightenment of Dharmakaya many times, eventually the Sambhogakaya comes. And the Sambhogakaya is higher, it's more ecstatic. It is a phenomena that is more matured by spirit. So they say that the Sambhogakaya beings are teachers of enlightened ones, or Bodhisattvas, or Buddhas. So the Sambhogakaya is, I think, the place of ecstasy, of the highest experience of spirit. I guess it's like the way it looks. Taking the turns. Yeah, this is powerful and good. You're excited. So the Sambhogakaya is the place where there's a lot of commotions of spiritual enlightenment. They say that the Sambhoga Buddhas can, or Bodhisattvas, can appear. And when they appear they look physical and they make amazing things happen. But they are not in the Dharmakaya. When one goes into the Dharmakaya, they go into this state of mind of spiritual uselessness. They go into this high, beautiful state where they're in perfection, one with everything, where nothing exists, which is perfection. In the Sambhogakaya, you experience the outflowing of enlightenment in a high spiritual way. In a way that is not associated with any karmas of the world. In a way that is in an extremely high spiritual expression of enlightenment. But it is an expression. In the Sambhogakaya, there is expression of spirit, expression of enlightenment. Those expressions sometimes are expressions of insight, sometimes they're expressions of destruction. But whether it's insight or destruction, the Sambhoga Buddha, the one who experiences the Sambhogakaya, is in perfect harmony and bliss and ecstasy. So when the Sambhoga Buddhas would appear, they would teach people in powerful ways. They usually are said to only teach enlightened people or bodhisattvas. But there's a lot of stories of the Sambhoga Buddhas coming here and teaching people. world, but they come almost as graces or sometimes acts of nature. And they come and they bring powerful lessons. They are not in this world. have the laws of time and space. This whole world that is physical is not physical to them. They can manipulate the physicality of all things and then they can bring a higher awareness in dharma. So the Sambodha Buddha is the Buddha that is blissful. So like I mentioned before Manjushri, the Bodhisattva of Wisdom is considered to be Sambhoga Buddha. And Amitabha Buddha is also, or Amitabha, the Buddha, existing in a place of spirit but able to manifest from an ecstatic form to transcend the suffering of beings in this limited world. There's a story. Eons ago, there was a world where there was a lot of war. And there were three nations that were fighting each other. And all three of them were just fighting each other. They didn't like,

0:55:25
two didn't team up on one. They just all hated each other's that.

0:55:28
Okay, so, one day, Tara, who is this famous bodhisattva, called negotiators to come together to negotiate peace. And so, on that day, three negotiators left from each country, there were neighboring countries, to come and meet each other with Tara. And they all set out. So one of them sets out in a carriage, and then on the way there, he has this extreme pain in his stomach, and he was going to die. And then Tara, you know, stops the carriage, opens it up, she puts her hands on his stomach, and then she heals him. And she says, okay, you've gotten over this, now you can go to the negotiation. one coming from another state and he had to cross a river and in crossing the river the ferry tipped over and he was caught in the rapids he was going to drown. Then all of a sudden Tara shows up on a raft and she helps him onto the raft and she somehow the rapids are crazy, but somehow she just gets him across the river Now you're safe. You can go on your way to the negotiation Then the third negotiator Set out In a small caravan, but the first negotiator had said assassins to kill him. And those assassins come, they're totally, you know, gonna destroy this little caravan, and then Tara shows up. And then the assassins are all, oh, Tara's this famous bodhisattva, so they're all, okay, sorry, we're not gonna do anything. And Tara sees him through. And then the negotiators all come together. And the first one is surprised to see the third one. But they're together. And then the first one says what happened. And the second one says, that's impossible, because Tara was with me, helping me cross the ferry. And the third one was like, wow. So they were all like, they disbelieved each other. They're like, wait, Tara came to help me. And then they started to argue. They're like, I think you're a liar, because Tara was with me. She wasn't with you. But the same day, she couldn't have been way over there at the ferry, helping me with my sickness, helping me, you know, when I'm getting attacked. And what happened is they're complaining and then Tara just appears in front of them. And then they say, how can it be Tara? And Tara says, I reside in the Sambhogakaya. So I can be anywhere and everywhere in the physical reality all at once, all of my complete focus. I'm not bound by time or space.

0:59:29
That is the play of the Sambhogakaya.

0:59:31
It is an ecstasy that is unbound, unlimited. It's a spiritual consciousness that is free and empowered. The Sambhogakaya is also the place of what we call hearing the Dharma. So it's like, they call it the communications, the bridge sometimes they call it. From the world of spirit of Dharma to here, this world. So in this world, we're sitting here in the physicality of understanding, of experience. We're like, oh ouch, that's tough. And then the words of the Buddha, the transmission of the teachings, where we can hear it, read it, see it, understand it, is a connection into the Samkhalokaya. So when I teach, I don't teach from all three kayas, but I definitely teach from the Sambhogakaya. My teachings come from enlightenment. We have a wonderful tradition in our lineage of music, music from enlightenment. So Xanthan and Vayu, they have this wonderful structure, transmission from my teacher, to be able to make music

1:02:02
that touches what we call the causal planes,

1:02:04
the dimensions of light. And this is an instrument of the Sambodha Kaya. It's an instrument, a tool that my teacher created, where the musicians, through their meditation and their yoga and the direction of their teacher, can find high dimensions of light, ecstatic dimensions of light that you can hear, that you can feel, that get you higher, where you can, these dimensions foster your enlightenment. dimensions in your mind, you focus on what you hear. The music comes from very, very bright places of enlightenment. The dimensions of light that come through the symbolic path. So this aspect of our school is very powerful. Um, you know, I wouldn't recommend meditating to anything that you feel like meditating to. I would recommend that you really get on board with the dimensions that come through Zazen and Bayu. Zazen and Bayu are not all perfect. Find the songs that are perfect for you. But they are songs by yogis who are working on this very high dharma. Songs from anything else? I don't know, whatever. You can do whatever you want. But these songs come from yoga, a very powerful structure of yoga. And it is songs that come from enlightenment, which is an expression of the Sambhogakaya. So I would like to sit with you for one song from Zazen and this song is Song of Enlightenment, Song of the Sun Bodhichitta. So I'd like you to sit nice and straight. You can focus on your third eye. Light focus. You can look to me. I'm going to be that Sambhogakaya light. And this is a direct transmission from the Sambhogakaya.

1:05:26
All right, let's begin. the the the the the the the the ♪♪ ♪♪ you You So Oh,

1:08:31
Now we come to the third of the trikaya, nirmana kaya. Nir has the same root as nirvana. That means nothing. We go beyond the awareness of all things, where anything that arises is unreal. We go beyond the awareness of the sambhogakaya, where there is the highest instant light spiritual reality. And in going beyond that, nirmanakaya is the truth that there is the dharmakaya, there is the sambhogakaya, can exist in incarnation, in manifestation, even in the illusion, the samsara,

1:10:35
the maya,

1:10:36
the illusion of life. Enlightenment and the illusion are the same. Enlightenment and Maya, enlightenment and samsara, there's no difference. And in nirmanakaya, there is a full expression of enlightenment standing before you in life, in this physical dream, enlightenment is real. Enlightenment is real. So in Tibetan Buddhism they say nirvana is that you are alive in this world and also in enlightenment. That's what enlightenment is. Well, there's different levels of enlightenment. That's one. They point to Buddha and they say, this high-level nirmanakaya. Buddha knew the dharmakaya.

1:12:05
Buddha knew the sambhogakaya.

1:12:07
And then Buddha, out of his great compassion, came to nirmanakaya, to be born here, here to incarnate enlightenment in this physical world, this limited dimension to bring unlimited consciousness. Your monika—this is considered to be full enlightenment, Enlightenment so strong that we can bring that enlightenment out of the mind, out of just spirit that manifests and into actual physical incarnation. So it's considered to be the greatest spiritual offering of a bodhisattva, to offer their being to incarnation. So the stories of the bodhisattvas in Sambhogakaya are bodhisattvas that appear here, there and everywhere and do great things. Maybe they appear in hell, but it is in the higher sense that they actually incarnate. They bring incarnation, connection with the world— not that they can just disappear, but that the physical body is totally immersed in the maya, in the samsara of the experience, and that they can go beyond it, because they are in nirmanakaya. So the Buddha is pointed out as one in nirmanakaya. This is what he said. He said, I'm in nirmanakaya. And that is that he lived his life, his physical life, bound to the illusion. And he had experienced lifetimes of Sambhogakaya. And yet he decided to incarnate and to go through the incarnation and to find in that incarnation the spiritual liberation beyond life and death of the samsara, to see the truth beyond delusion. That is nirmanakaya. So the world that we live in seems like we're going to live, we're going to die. Nirmanakaya is to see beyond that life and death and to realize the spirit beyond that life and death, and to be incarnate, to live this life, to bring enlightenment into this life of life and death, and yet at the same time be beyond life and death. In Nirmānakāyā, one sees a bigger picture. One sees a greater view, a higher dharma. And one can incarnate, decide, I want to help this world, that world, some world, some place where you have a predilection to bring your dharma and your enlightenment. These are like what we call as the enlightened shot callers. They have a seeing, a dharma, a vision beyond anyone's hopes or dreams where they decide to to appear. So the stories of the incarnate Buddhas, they consider these the stories of the Nirmanakaya. Now, they don't only have to appear as people and teachers. They also appear as things from time to time. There's a story from the mid-1700s. It was a war between Burma had an extremely strong general and he was excellent. And even though the Siamese army was greater, he somehow penetrated Siam, beat them, and he was just winning, winning, winning, winning. And then he even sacked the capital city and he was gonna squash the rest of the army. And they met on the battlefield. And then the day that they decided to charge in to fight, something happened. In the middle of the battlefield, this golden wheel of Dharma, it was like 10 feet tall, appeared 10 feet in diameter. Wheel of Dharma. It kind of looks like a boat, you know. A boat thing that you, you don't row it, but you turn it.

1:18:31
And, um,

1:18:33
and it's a symbol, an auspicious symbol. And both Burma and Siam were Buddhist countries. And and the general from Burma was like, I know we can crush the Siamese and it'll be over. But then when this giant golden wheel of Dharma appeared in the middle of the battlefield as they charged in, then everybody just kind of stopped. So, it's kind of weird. Isn't that like one of the auspicious Buddhist symbols? Yes, it is. So the Burmese general, being a devout Buddhist, recognized that that was a sign from the Buddha. That was an expression of Buddha enlightenment itself. said that fighting is not the Dharma. So that was his interpretation. So then he decided to turn around and take his army. He was way deep into the Siamese territory. And then he said, we leave. We go back to Burma. That's the sign he got from it because he was a Buddhist and was looking. But the Burmese, they took it. They carried it back. They're all, this is going to be something we put in a big temple. So they carried it back, this giant golden wheel of Dharma. just as they're getting back to the main city, the Chinese, thinking that they were totally like in this war with Siam, they've been planning for a long time. They were like, we're gonna squash Burma. And so when, just as they were getting back to the capital city, China attacked on the northern border and China came in big, because that's what China does, and then China expected that there was no army because they thought the army was all fighting in Siam, but then they went straight from just getting there to facing the Chinese army and then the Chinese army was like, whoa, where did these guys come from? We thought we were just gonna walk over this country and they they came to the battlefield and they put down that big wheel of Dharma but they're but they're full army and then Chinese are like it's cool yeah we don't like Burmese food that much anyway. And so then Trina retreated. So this is something that appears in many ways and also in many subtle and small ways. Where enlightenment, like you could say incarnates and reveals itself. In mysticism we often call it like an omen. It just shows truth, shows the way, it shows the nature of things. So Nirmanakaya is expression of enlightenment in this world. Expression of enlightenment that is real for us, that we can learn from, interface with, get something from, use forward. It's the wheel of Dharma preventing an unjust battle so that there could be a just defense. It is truth of enlightenment of the Dharma acting upon this world. This is the nirmanakaya. It is you know like Krishna. Krishna talking to Arjuna at the bottle of Kurukshetra. It's like this is enlightenment. Awake in front of you, working with your situation.

1:23:40
That's the nirmanakaya.

1:23:42
Yeah, the nirmanakaya also is said to be creations, sometimes miracles, sometimes just things. Well there's a story of Tilopa. Tilopa was the enlightened master of Naropa, who was the enlightened master of Marpa, who was the enlightened master of Milarapa, and they were in they went from India to Tibet with their bodhisitta. But Tilopa, he at one point sat with his students and he said, I'm going to create a demonstration, a demonstration of enlightenment. And it's something that you can see. It's very powerful powerful in creating shifts in the physical world. But it's something very powerful. So the Nirmanakaya is something where in spirit you can create a shift that makes a breakthrough. And it's something visible, understandable, maybe shocking, but what Tiloca did is he said look and then he created all around him this big kind of like kaleidoscope It was like a yantra. You look at it and you meditate. You're drawn into it. And then it changed and it drew everybody in this circle of awareness that created a complete circle of awareness that brought them to the Dharmakaya. It's like a kaleidoscope of opening dimensions that unleash higher dimensions, that bring you to the next place, the next awareness, where it all grows and shifts and changes into a higher awareness of enlightenment, where everything's empty, where everything that just comes up is completely empty. And everything that comes up that's completely empty ends up being a spiritual boon, a spiritual grace, a grace that becomes you, a grace that you can share, to make things real. Strong user interface, we call it. And then this is the way that people in this place, you know we do this with like internet programming, really. Here's something or become enlightened on the internet. We make an interface. This is the mnemonic I am. An interface. Something usable and reusable for people to become liberated, to have insight. So, I'd like to sit with you with a focus, light focus on the bed I do their monica Going from that perfect place, Dharmakaya, where nothing is real, to a high spirit, the ecstatic play of Sambhogakaya, into the Namanakaya, a concreteness of spirit that contains the Dharmakaya and the Sambhogakaya in a way that is real, incarnate, structured, where the first intention and the second intention are together. So, just sit up nice and straight, soft focus on the camera, and let's see here. You So, the You. Oh. So, So So So. Oh, Okay, good. This is the Chakaya, the three fields or dimensions of enlightenment. And while the basic meaning is the undoing of self, the nothing, the place where everything starts from emptiness, and then it goes into this expression of both that emptiness and that enlightened ecstasy in this world. Any point of enlightenment is pretty good. But in our school, there's no end to enlightenment. It keeps going on and on. And so when you have your first samadhi, it's beautiful. But then you're going to want your next. It's going to bring you higher and higher until you go beyond the self, into the dharmakaya. And then that'll be perfect for the time. And as it matures, then you'll go into the sambhogakaya. And that's perfect. And it's blissful, fun time. And then it will mature. Then you'll come back to the world and you'll experience the higher experience of enlightenment which is bringing, you know, the nirvana kaya, which is where you bring free liberation, your highest experience, some light and ecstatic bliss, you bring it into this world with some sort of incarnation. And it might happen in all sorts of different subtle ways,

1:37:00
but it happens.

1:37:01
And it's true.

1:37:02
But then there's this really great teaching that my teacher taught. He taught that enlightenment goes on and on. So even those three levels, the three levels, the trikaya, is only three levels of enlightenment. And my teacher, Rama, he said, think of it more like tenth degree black belt is the top. So these are just like first degree, second degree, third degree. Getting a first degree black belt, it's good. Second degree, even better. Third degree, pretty cool. But there's something beyond it. And therefore, I'd like to introduce the fourth kaya. It's called the Svabhavika Kaya. And they just add more, you know, to it. Problems with meaning something in Sanskrit. But it's considered the next kaya, the next level of enlightenment. And here's the great truth of enlightenment. There's no end to enlightenment. That enlightenment goes on and on and on and on. So I think about a year ago I had given up on a higher enlightenment. I had achieved what I believe my teacher taught me and I was just working. And then all of a sudden, boom, something else happened. So here's the funny thing. you're like, that's enlightenment.

1:39:14
Whoa, the best.

1:39:16
Once you attain it, because you might experience it a number of times, but once you attain it where it is your consciousness, you're like, that's enlightenment. But then after a while, you start going to some bhogakaya consciousness. And then you're like, well, that's even better. I'm having better meditation. And then eventually you attain Sambhogakaya. And you're like, Oh my God, that is 10,000 times higher than enlightenment. And then in the Nirvana Kaya, it's 10,000 universes more intensely higher and then there's higher and more and it never ends. So these kaya, classically in the Tibetan literature, the teachings, they teach that there are five kāyas. And I understand why. But the ones that I'm teaching are very constructive in the structures that we work with. So the other two kāyas are, they are ways to enlightenment, but they're not ones that we work with so directly. So we have a simple structure. You know how we meditate on the navel, the heart, and the third eye? Well there's seven chakras, but if we focus on those, good things happen. And same thing with the kayas. There's many ways to be enlightened in So I would like to thank you. It was wonderful sitting with you today, talking about... These are intermediate teachings that you can find in Bodhicitta and the Lojong mind training, but it goes really high. And the way that I describe it, you might read about it. Someday I'm going to find one of the books that you can read about it and the way that I talk about it is not just a way of intermediate understanding. It is understanding and light and the little high Dharma of enlightenment, the levels of enlightenment. So they describe it in very simple ways sometimes, but I'm using lots of weird Tibetan words, which is all a bunch of garbage. It's really about the understanding that you feel and see in your heart. It's really about the understanding that you feel and see in your heart. So, thank you all.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
