0:00:00
All right, we're going to meditate. So when it comes to meditation, you have to be for real. You can't just be like all, uh-hum-ohm, what should I do tomorrow? Uh-hum-ohm, I really want to eat some cheese. Right or whatever. Right. So, life is life. The samsara and maya is this stuff that you could put on a sandwich and all that. But when we meditate, like, are you guys advanced students? Am I in the advanced place. Okay, when you meditate, it's no bullshit. It's for real. When we meditate, it is clean, sharp, nothing. It's strong, it's powerful. That's what this technique is There's different ways to enlightenment you can just be all like what's life all about Oh enlightenment But um, but what we do is we go we push power chakras Kundalini and then we go oh I And then we go, oh, I had to push to see something. And that's the path you're on, I'm sorry. I mean, otherwise just go, aha, eureka. Like you can do that. And like do that and that'll be fine too. But if you'll, if that just doesn't happen naturally, then what we do is we work, we push, we do all sorts of things. We do all sorts of things. We're all like doing karate. Did we get this on camera? So we do karate, we do career, and those things are intense things, right? And then, like, you know, we really try, try, try, try, try, try, try, try, because that develops enough energy, personal power to break through the door that isn't even a door, but eventually that's all you got to do. Or just go, So I really loved it. And Lila's talk, where she's like, I mean, and this is this is true. I was all like, she's all she's like, all teachers and gurus and all this stuff. And even me, I'm like, you don't need a freaking teacher, you need to learn or you need it. We're learning all this stuff to realize you don't even need a teacher. You don't need a teacher. And then I'll just be sitting there giving you a hard time till you realize that. Which is a big joke in the end. So we're going to meditate. You don't need a teacher. You guys know how to meditate. Just be real, like do it.

0:03:39
Take responsibility for your meditation.

0:03:42
So, there's nothing that you need.

0:03:49
Just

0:03:51
be Just Be awake be Your Buddha nature accept your Buddha nature Enlightenment is within you That's where we start in meditation and then Do it and then do it. Whereas Nike would say simply do it. All right we're gonna sit and we're going to meditate. Okay, let's begin. Okay.

0:05:08
Okay. Okay. Om. Om. All right, good. We have to make sure that the windows are closed. Like I feel a draft. And I also hear a draft. All right, so... Interesting.

0:06:16
So, Leila had a strong impact on me when she said it to me the first time. She's like, don't wait. She's like so intermediate. Accept enlightenment now. And the intermediate mind is we're always trying to work hard, get stronger, be bigger until we get to the top of the mountain and then enlightenment is I'm at the bottom of the mountain. I had some Zen story about that. I had a Zen story about that. It's a Zen teaching. When you can take a pole and climb to the top of a 30-foot pole and balance, strength, control, and then you get to the top. And, and the Zen master says, that's a level of precision, impeccability, and amazingness. But then, then, then you say, then what? The Zen So, I mean Van Halen had a song about that. We're going to meditate to Van Halen.

0:12:59
Just kidding.

0:13:00
like, what's it inhaling? They were into like jumping. So jump. And then he found he was on another pole You don't you don't you don't die you go on to the next thing But you had a jump It's gonna be totally Van Halen. Jump! Might as well jump. Yeah, so Lila was like, hey you might as well jump. Or she was That's the fast path. Leila says don't wait. And her teaching and her message is very strong because from her experience, just sharing like, hey, I'm like all you, like I'm like all you too. But I started off, started meditating, learned some mindfulness. I thought this and that. And then also, I give them a really hard time. Hungarians, I was like, I showed up. I'm like, there's lots of older students who are like not, they don't know anything about, they didn't know anything about technology. I said, if you're going to study with me, go out and study software. And then, Kamala, do you think I gave the ST3s a hard time? I gave the Hungarians a much harder time. I was like, sell software or get out! And I was like, I was like, make the sale or you're out! And it was just so difficult. Just so difficult. But it created a very powerful structure for the group, people who are very very serious about practice. And the ones that weren't serious, then they're gone. Oh, this is a advanced group. So I'm probably going to be raising the bar for the Americans. I've given them a long happy time of like, you can sit there and be like, well, I'm a vegan, a vegan vampire. I only like carrots. And I'm like, whatever you're into, I'm very, I've been very positive to them, helping them out a lot. And, and yet, we can see that

0:17:33
And they need to be destroyed.

0:17:41
They do they need to be destroyed.

0:17:43
No, it has to happen. I mean, like not them as a as a living organism, but they're in their karma, the karma needs to be destroyed. So, after the Kalachakra empowerment, that was mind blowing. I'm going to tell you guys a little secret. That's my Japanese way of saying secrets. I don't know if that's accurate but that's... Alright, so I was on security. Me and seven other girls and boys. And after the Kala Chakra empowerment where Rama was like he kicked our ass see see how she was come she was like giving me a hard time the whole time yes I gave her I gave her a hard time trying to hit everything on the ego until she No. And then Nirvana. And I have to say, what's wrong with this mic? Okay, but I have to say, it's the best thing for me. Like, I'm just sitting there going, and like she said, I gave her a hard time. I want everyone else to have a good time. But Lila will teach more about that. But I gave her a hard time. I was giving her a hard time the whole time. Anything, any red button that was there, if there's a button, I'm going to push it. And then right before my eyes, she went into Nirvikalpa Samadhi, into Nirvana. The self dissolved, and I'm just watching. And then she came back. And this is the thing she she said in a way for the intermediates, but then she So, when you go into Salva Kuppa Samadhi, it's like you open yourself up to the universe and you're like, wow, everything and nothing at the same time. It's like a roller coaster of wonderful. It's amazing. But Nirbhaka is very different. And, and Lila was going into Selvakalpa Samadhi all the time. But Nirvakalpa is where the self lets go of even God and the universe and the oneness. And And then I was like, I'm like, really? Is that really actually possible? I mean, I mean, that's what I've been teaching guys to do, but can actually happen. And it and it did. And then when she so if you're like, I don't know, Krishna or something, then maybe you were at a different level but primary enlightenment after going to Nirvikalpa you come back but that self that comes back has a way of speaking, has a color of its skin, and a good dance routine. You know, whatever, you know, like you have your way, and that's your expression of enlightenment. So that comes back. There is still a kind of karma to be in this world. Otherwise you would go into Samadhi, Nirvikalpa, and then you would just say, I'm gonna die. You would die. It's the way it is. But at the same time, at the core of your spirit, you are free. You're not suffering, you're the past is dust, and the samskaras and the karmas... Wait, wait, the karmas are gone, the samskaras are still there in primary enlightenment. And you just know what they are, and you're like, let me not jump into that snake pit. I know there's a snake pit here, So Buddha said an enlightened person would rather drink molten lava that have a thought of desire So once you have Nirvikalpa You will not Think a thought of self-desire or anything You'll be like I'm gonna be totally on Dharma side because you know, because you've been freed and you see the world as it is. The Maya, the suffering. And then one of the greatest things about Leela is why did Leela get the Kala Chakra empowerment it's because Lila had compassion. And you know how I teach compassion? We're all, hmmm. Now the Tzvetans teach it in a seriously boring way. But Chukakawa, the teacher who seven points of mind training, he was awoke with enlightenment. And all his little slogans that we work on, they come from a very enlightened teacher. And it's hard to be compassionate. Like, we're like, oh, that's an interesting idea. Which it is. It's all interesting ideas. But you need to find in your sitting meditation, in your relative bodhicitta, you need to find where it actually works. Because if it actually works, it's not just an idea, or it's not just a help for one person, it's a raging force of compassion. That's what I'm teaching. And this is what I've always been teaching, but I'm angry at pink ties, or the shoes and socks, and the jackets you wear. You can do all sorts of compassion, I love it all. But you have compassion, real compassion. You have to develop it for your mom, that's what that's what the they start with, or your or your children. Children is very strong. Or your friend. You have to start to feel a compassion. But then, it has to go bigger. Because if you just have compassion for your mom and your kids, your friends, then they say, well, that becomes an attachment. So you have to have this raging I'm not kidding. That cannot be a block. It can't be, I'm going to be raging compassion except for Donald Trump America, the blacks, the Mexicans, the Jews. And some other country, they don't like Turks in Syria, you know, I don't know everywhere there's everything and you have to say you should look at the racism of other countries But and then how random is this because this other country has a different social conditioning You say It's gone. We don't need it Everybody is everybody So We have to have compassion for everyone. Not just someone close to us, not just someone that we worry about. They also say, have compassion for your enemies. So with Leila, the way she got to the advanced teachings before you, and I didn't even tell her, she was raging with compassion. No, like, now, a funny little story. Some of you guys in Hungary, we used to come out of Dobogoker, hiking, and on the way out, this is the place of power in Hungary, and the way out of the hike, there was this picture, you remember, right? This picture, like it's a drawn picture. And she's a beautiful kind of like nun looking woman with a headdress and everything, but she's wearing all white, but it's glowing. And she looks like the most beautiful Pius goddess. Did I show you that, Kali? No? Oh, okay. And I came out, I might have been with Shannon, maybe a couple other people, and I was like, that's like Lila. And it kind of looks like Leela. And also today she's wearing white. And also when she taught, it was bright, bright white. So just gotta say, from my opinion, I've seen lots of other enlightened people. India, we went to India, right? It's really cool. And you know, students in America, and I like all of them. But I'm very, I think that Leela's light is good. But it's... yeah. I like it. It's wonderful. We're gonna meditate. Ready? It's just gonna be for a moment of a moment. It might just be for a minute or five or six, but come on, we're gonna do this and No bullshit It's funny cuz enlightenment sounds all wishy-washy, but you gotta be strong And that's why we're here together so we're gonna sit for just a few minutes But we're gonna sit Strong together Okay, ready let's do it I'm going to put it on the right side.

0:33:06
Okay. Okay, very good. So after the Kala Chakra teachings that Rama gave us, we had precious months with our enlightened And he gave additional, he's so funny, he told us this in the beginning, he's like,

0:34:10
I'm a good teacher. I'm a good teacher. He's like change your world. He's like, I'm in the zone. And then in the intermediate teachings, he was like, Oh, this is like the hard part. But he said, What I'm best at is advanced teaching. He's like, I am an advanced teacher. He's like, so I can help you guys in the beginning. Like, whoa, look, magic. And then the intermediate part is all wishy-washy. And he's like, the advanced teaching, that's where I'm the best. He's like, that's what I've been always the person who can bring someone into enlightenment

0:36:50
So

0:36:52
The the beginning teachings, I don't know how it was for you guys

0:36:55
but for me

0:36:57
there was that beautiful honeymoon period of happiness and like all sorts of good ideas and then it comes to working on discipline. And so probably for you it was more discipline because that's, I'm just like, let's get rid of the losers and just get into discipline. at all nearly as good as Rama, as an advanced teacher, but I know what I learned. And I can help you. I can show you what I learned. So I was talking to Lila, and I was like, do you know those Tongkas? Where they, it's a lineage Tongka, this Tibetan picture. A Tibetan picture, where they show this lineage holder, the guy who started it, the root guru is what they call it. Some like Buddha, Buddha started a thing. And then he had a big group. So in the picture, they show big group, a big sangha. And then they're like, well, and then they're there in a big bubble of light around her. So, she stepped up. I'm like, who steps up? She stepped up out of this big group to be the next thing. And I'm like, that's what I was saying. Some of you guys came into ABS. That's what I was saying in ABS. You know, Dharma from Meditate Sanavate, he stepped up. He got a mortgage, got a place, did it totally wrong. I'm going to work with him on that. He's coming to Bodie Woods. I mean, he didn't know how to do it right. So, when you step up for the Dharma, you have to first, I would say, be enlightened, but if you're not, then step up for the Dharma. It's a good thing Even if you have to be like I remember this guy he was like Preaching on the street a 16th and mission And he was a bad preacher, but somehow I don't know he was there But he was there and he kept saying things that God said God said you should be good God said you should not hate. But he said it uselessly. Not like really connecting with anyone. He didn't have a good tonal or anything. But he was standing there saying it. Yeah, so we must share the Dharma powerfully. Find the right people, people of like mind, people of like mind and be strong. And we have to be strong for us. Because if we're strong for us, then we can help others. If we're strong for ourselves, it's just wishy-washy. But if we're strong for us, we can make a powerful difference for others. So now I'm like, I can have advanced students teach and I couldn't have it before, but they're advanced and they can and they will be enlightened. And who are you? You're advanced students. And you can teach the Sangha. to make this Sangha. It's like the Tibetan Tanka. There's the person who started it and had a big group and the people carry on. This is a thing in the universe. This is a way So I think there's so much that I can do and I want to do everything I'm gonna do it forever but I Can't But if the way Lila stepped up and Lila's been Talking about this with me for nine months. She's like, I'm very sensitive. I'm like, yeah, me too. And she's all, things hurt. I'm like, mm hmm. And then she's like, I'm gonna do it. And she did it really well, perfectly. That is a support for the whole Sangha, and especially for you advanced students. You could all be enlightened, you should all be enlightened. There's no And when you find a reason why not, then go beyond it. No, really, look at it. You're like, no, I have this, I have a thought, I have a plan, I have a desire. Don't stop and don't wait

0:45:45
So Brahma's teaching

0:45:48
Believe that you can be enlightened because you can can. Don't stop. Don't stop for anything. Don't stop for an idea. Don't stop for anger. Don't stop for an attachment. Don't stop. Like really, look at where you're stopping. You're like, oh well I'm, I have this idea, oh I'm in this karma. Stop! Say, I'm stopping my enlightenment, I have an enlightened teacher, I've built myself up to this level, and I'm not Lila showed that you should not suffer anything. Don't suffer anything. Don't stop. Don't stop. And then Lila's teaching, which is perfectly aligned to Rama's teaching is don't wait. What are you waiting for? What are you waiting for? You can be enlightened now. Like when Leela first said that to me, I was like, well, I almost said I couldn't be enlightened. And then he said, and you don't stop for anything, don't settle at anything, and you can be enlightened. If you settle at anything, that's where you That's who you are. If you find yourself settling, say, do I want to be angry? Do I want a cheesecake? Whatever the fuck it is. Everything in your life, do I want this more than enlightenment? Because this teaching brings you beyond anything. It brings you beyond self, beyond desire, beyond fear, beyond a cheesecake. So, and then Leela has a really powerful insight. Don't wait. Do it now. Don't wait. Do it now. And when she says this, it's from her experience. It's powerful. So I was telling her after her teaching, I said, that teaching, I'm like, people are going to do it faster. I know it. I see it because of the truth. And when you see the truth, for a friend of a Sangha mate, it's real. And that realness is for realness. And also, you know, I'm just a student of Rama, just a very average student. But I learned what he taught. And I learned what he taught. So, this is a group for enlightenment. Not fucking around, for real. Meditate strong, because in your meditation, that's where there's nobody else. No other ideas. No, you know, with Leela, I loved it. I gave her a hard time. I was all... until she went into Nirvana right in front of me. Then I'm like, I'll probably do that to you. I'll probably be like a pushy bastard. And right in front of my eyes, she said, I was teaching her everything about everything about the ego and she was like no no

0:51:19
She's like and then she just went

0:51:21
Into nirvana and I'm like Yeah, that's real And I'm like And I like it. I Was I was really happy. I'm not saying how happy I can't express how happy I was. I was very happy. But I was still in my sensei mode. I'm like, I am like, oh, oh, you're in Nirvana? I'm like, did you see the end of the Karate Kid. I was just like, Then... What? Who's talking at me? Okay, and then what happened right after she went into Nirvana, I came out and I was like, I was like, that's enlightenment. Then

0:52:24
she

0:52:26
in front of my eyes became the Kalachakra. Like she became the Kalachakra. And I was like, whoa, the Kalachakra has many dimensions. And she completely embodied it completely. And then not only the enlightenment of the Kala Chakra, but then she became just a higher level of it. I don't know, it what what it was to me was it became a white platinum kind of light. So the Kala Chakra has Anything it has all hum. Oh those colors and then his gold light has many dimensions But then when she expressed That though that white platinum light that's like Wow very beautiful So So the Kala Chakra works. This practice works. You have to believe that you can be enlightened, because if you don't, then second-guess yourself. Yeah, if you don't think you can be enlightened, then you have to say, hmm. So like, yeah, Leela was saying early on, like, when she first saw me, she's all, I can be enlightened! I'm not going to go dancing down the street. You can be enlightened. Enlightenment is within all of you. And in the advanced teachings, like, she'll probably give another talk about kind of the hardships about it. I mean, it's not hard. It's just full. It's all the way. But she went all the way. I went all the way. And it is a thing. It's a thing. Yeah. Yeah, so when you go from the intermediate teachings where you're developing yourselves, you go to the advanced teachings. It's just, to me, it's very basic. Believe that you can be enlightened, because that's the truth. This is what we all learn. This is what Rama taught. Enlightenment is within you and enlightenment is eternity, oneness with all things. And you've you need to believe that in your heart. And don't stop. He was like, don't let yourself stop at any desire, because if you stop at any desire, then you won't be enlightened. Rama said, if you get to something that makes you happy but it's not enlightenment, it's not enough. You have to recognize that that will be a bardo or some karma where you're stuck. So you need to look at what do you want, what are you doing, and say, is this enlightenment? No, it's anything in karma Don't stop at anything and I always say my my little thing on that is Whatever you settle for that's what you get But if you settle for anything in karma, there's gonna be a lot of suffering. I Told Mandela that before her liberation. She was stuck in something. It's a kind of karma. And I said, whatever you settle for, that's it. She's like, not going to settle. And a lot was there after Sergei died when we were in Shasta? All right, so some of us. That was very close after I said that to Mandala. And then Mandala, I was doing the first round of the bardo teachings and I had gotten a what we would call a term or a download from Rama and that was yeah that was the One of my students died, Sergey, very interesting spiritual and interesting fellow in a powerful transition in his life. And he just like up and died or low and died. And but he was in our group. We loved him. This total ST3. Yeah. But then I did the Bardo teaching for him. And I didn't know before. It's just like, like, when he died, then all of a sudden, Rama came to my mind and I got I had gotten the, the teachings, the transmissions, and I had read the Bardo-Satal several times. It's just that Rama is a master of the after-death thing, Bardo's we would call it. And he gave us this he talked about it a little bit. After the Kalachakra, the advanced transmissions, he talked about it a little bit. And then, he was just going whoosh. One sentence on a subject, whoosh. One sentence on another subject, whoosh. He was giving us everything, everything, everything. Everything, students, SE1s, SE2s, all of Rama's students are magic, temples of magic. And she's just like, I'm going to do this. I was like, okay, now I know what to do. Now I know what to do. It took a while for me. So I was very Lila and Lila's been being very careful She's very sensitive So you can't you can't you can't pull on her the same way you pull on me You have to be grateful for the time where she feels like showing up because if If you guys have bad etiquette, and you're like, oh, show me some she'll be like I can't come back She won't come back so Have a great deal of care and respect because That teachings really Wonderful, it was really wonderful. It opens so much opportunity to you to see that you're in a dojo, we're all doing karate and then someone gets a black belt, you know, oh, I guess it's possible. And it is for all of you. But for that one black belt, don't give Give them a hard time. Give them whatever they want to show. Let them show it when they want to show it. So be cool. You guys are awesome. in this room definitely can be enlightened. Everyone and everyone should be. So this is a school of enlightenment. And all of you can do it. All of you can do it, and you should, because why not? Let's do it right. Many enlightened students. Rama has many enlightened students. And so there's a way to do it right. And you can all do it. Believe. Like, don't don't doubt yourself. Don't doubt yourself. Know that even if you feel super shitty, know that you have enlightenment within you. It is a truth, a dharma of the universe, that you have enlightenment within you. Enlightenment is within you. You have Buddha nature. It's just the innate way. That's how you are if you have a body You're you have Buddha nature enlightenment is within you Never doubt that You can you can recognize all your karma all your pain all your difficulties Yeah, there's a recognition for that. I Got a lot of oh, am I gonna tell that now should I say it yeah I should say it so enlightenment is the way out of suffering but when you're enlightened you suffer more you do I know it's a funny thing. Well, if you go sit around in a cave, you go to a cave, sit in a cave, probably okay. Okay, but if you're gonna, if you're going to, like, so Leela was like nine months enlightened and she's like, I don't know. She's like, I would, she's like, I have so much of my heart to share. I would love to help people. I know I can help people. I'm like, do you want to go through what you have to go through? And she's like, I don't know if I'm ready for that. It took nine months. Nine months of work because different enlightened people are different. Like Agni Kala and Shiva, they're badasses. They'll just sit up and say all sorts of shit and take whatever you want to give back to them. And I'm like, Oh, well, I was like that. Remember I like when I was like 25 I don't know 35 or something when I was young when I was a young person. I could take a lot. But you know, for for Lila to spend like Lila once you be she became liberated. She wanted to help and I was like, oh Do you know what that means? people faults That's what I'm saying. Don't pull on her Be

1:07:26
Respect her

1:07:27
because That was special and if you get all mad or bent out of shape, don't do it. I'll work with the intermediate students, but you're advanced students, so you should be inspired, see where it comes from, and believe it in yourself. I like that the best, personally, just for me. I'm like, you know, I like Shiva a lot. Shiva's super magical. He's such a great occultist. And Agni Kala, like go to the desert with him and he's like, and my thing is very direct. I'm like, like she doesn't. And so she does many dimensions, but I'm like, I'm like, so she was telling me she was going to do a transmission. I'm like, really? And and it was beautiful. Did you guys see you guys? Were you guys there? Okay. Hmm, so I'm very appreciative but You have to believe In your bullet in your Buddha nature. You can't just be like all little Simmer is annoying and that's why she's here. That's why I have other teachers come up Because you're like, well some burrows. I have to be bald and brown to be enlightened or something, right? I mean, that's that's what that's oh my gosh Like Rama's students are all like I have to be tall and blonde with frizzy hair They're all that's what enlightenment is. It's the ridiculous is thing, but that's what people believe That's why It's very important for you to see Enlightenment see enlightenment. When you're enlightened, you're going to be different than me. You're going to be different from Leela. When you're enlightened, you're going to be you in your way. It might be simple. It might be intense. It'll be whatever it is. But enlightenment you. Absolutely for sure. Never doubt it. Don't stop at anything. And as Leela says, don't wait. When Leela says don't wait, that means you can be enlightened now. Don't wait I'm like that's when she said that because she because she became liberated faster than I thought I was like well three or four or five years two and a half years less than that Because she was like she had a realization. Don't wait the thing of Lila's liberation was that she said Don't wait. I'm not gonna wait for it. I recognize it. I know that enlightenment is within me. I know that I'm not going to wait for anything. I'm not going to settle anything else. So why am I going to wait? Anything? And she burned through karmas like crazy, super fast. That's all. Wow, that's pretty weird. That was pretty good. And then poof Or whatever either in or out or both So So Lila has a very Profound teaching that I'd like you guys to focus on, which is don't wait. Don't wait. Believe that you're enlightened, that you have Buddha nature. Don't settle for anything else, and don't wait. expediently. Like, what's holding you back? But it's true and it's real. It's let go of self for real. Go into Nirvikalpa Samadhi for real. Leela, she's a master of meditation. Not only can she sit and meditate, but every time she sits and meditates, she goes into Savakava Samadhi. It's the real deal. So, once you know your Buddha inside, and won't stop for anything But the Kala Chakra works It's for real Okay I'm gonna say come Sam Nida and thank you all very much lovely to sit with you So when Rama was teaching the advanced teachings, he gave us the call of chakra empowerment. And then he talked to us the next seminar. We had like three or four days with him. And he's just all blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. just a usual situation, but it was definitely an uncommon affair. And even though we had am I? So Brahma always said he was the best at advanced teaching. He gave us the advanced teaching and then he made the other teachings look like intermediate teachings. It took a lot and I've done the teachings and all that stuff, but there is a Transmission of how you can teach how you can be the leader of a power trip I remember when Rama did that he just talked about it super randomly He just talked about it super randomly. He just talked about places of power. So when you're advanced, the words don't matter. But somehow I learned something from him where I can lead a power trip. Before that, there was no such thing as leading a power trip. That was you go to you go with Rama. And we practice, you know, it's like going to the dojo. Yeah, so imagine if you could lead a group of a hundred students or ten students or whatever into the gorge. That's super intense. And my SC3s will remember when I first brought you there, I was very, this was my first time being in there. I knew I had the transmissions, but I was just like, I was like, what are you doing walking two feet away from me? Walk over here. It was very specific. The thing about the transmissions of the advanced teachings, These are we can call them sitters or higher awarenesses. You have to work on it You can't just do it right away I mean, maybe you can But you probably have to work on it. And so I've worked on these things a lot So I see threes room remember the first time I took them to places of power and I you you have to do it from your heart otherwise you can't just be all I am all powerful from whatever I came out of a lamp right so so you can't take this for granted. This is discipline and work. So my ST3s have been around me when I was first doing power trips. I did not take it easy. I was like, I know I'm in a place of power. And I'm not just doing this because weezy-easy. I was serious about it, and I was focused on it like I was with Rama in the desert. And if you don't do that, you'll never get it. If you don't honor what it is, what it means. You got to think about going to the desert with me and being like, this is a feeling. I give you the real feeling. Let's call it a feeling. You got to feel that you got to respect that. You got to like have that. You can go and take people into the desert and show them Rama's enlightenment. You know, everything that I show you guys I'm just from a good dojo with a good sensei. I didn't make any of this up. So when I go into a dojo, I honor it. If I'm going to learn from a sensei, I honor it. And if that sensei teaches me the super amazing jumping spinning hook kick, I honor it. If you go into the desert, it has to be from the right place. But there's magic. If you come from the right place, you can go into that desert and you can open up all the dimensions that Rama opened. You learned all the techniques, you've been there many times. And then the transmission is that now you can do it. Like I did it for you. At whatever degree, I mean you have to learn it, you have to work on it. I remember after I got the transmissions, the advanced teachings, I started going to new places of power. That's where I went to Zion. I just started to, I had to go and find places and be there and try and figure it out. And guess what Agni Kala did? Agni Kala went to way more places. He was telling me about all these places he went to. I was like, whoa.

1:21:51
He went to Capitol Reef.

1:21:52
He was really into Capitol Reef, but so many other places. He found this place and he was finding places of power. And guess what he is. He's a he's a mystic of the desert of all the students of Rama. He's a mystic of the desert. I mean, like, you guys all know how big of a deal it is just higher and higher and higher. And so you have to have... See, I was going to give this class about talking about the places of power and what it meant, but then I'm just all... I remember Rama talked about it for like three minutes and then he gave this transmission When I was like, I didn't even notice there was a transmission The advance so the advanced teachings they are He gave so many advanced teachings Because he's a he was a master of advanced teachings. He always told us I'm good at advanced teachings. And it's not in words, it's all in second attention. But he gave us the most amazing magic. And I keep going on, don't feel like it. What time is it? It's crystal! Oh we're five minutes over? They didn't kick us out. If I go this way... what happened? I usually go this way, this way I'm all... to all as advanced students embody everything about enlightenment and all of the teachings that we have. I mean, we have we have we have many teachings. Many, many, many, many, many, And like, at first it's like, Rama just taught me all that he did all this stuff to me. But when he did it, he was teaching me it. When he was doing the power trips, he was teaching me the power trips. Everything I do on a power trip, you can do on a power trip. Because you've learned it many times over and over. And then when you're an advanced student, it's not that you just can experience it well, it's that you can, you can do it. You have to develop yourself to do it. But you can do it. There's it's like I'm hanging I'm handing you the keys to the Ferrari. Not kidding. That's what that's what Rama did for us. Rama taught me many times in dreaming. I teach a teaching in our school of how to be a dreaming teacher. Not just a person who dreams with someone randomly, but how to teach in dreams. And so when Rama talked about that, dreaming, he probably talked about it for about three or four So after the advanced teachings, the tone-out that he took was he wanted to teach Shakespeare. Wasn't it Shakespeare? That was before? Oh, Project Mansion! No, no, no, it was whatever, whatever he did. What was it though? It was Java. You think it was project... yeah, Lockstreet's right here. I'm like, who are you people? We all remember three different things, okay, then that's going to be the way it is All of you will become enlightened and then you guys will come back and be all it was cool It's important told taught us how to eat tacos You're all what are you talking about? Everyone will have a different idea But then it wasn't project management.

1:27:52
Okay, what do you remember? Like, what happened? There was the client server.

1:27:59
Then there was the Kala Chakra. And then? What do you think? And then what was after? Okay, so they're right. I just remember everything backwards. Thank you, it's it's nice, but basically anyway What?

1:28:28
Oh

1:28:30
Golf yeah, yeah

1:28:32
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, no, it's golf we had we had a big golf thing golf teachings

1:28:38
Golf is super enlightening by the way

1:28:41
But anyone golf here? None of you. Okay, so I'm gonna go a little bit. He's got a little I if I do like you know like Zen mind Zen in the art of golf then I can beat him I'll be like like Zen mind is a beginner's mind and I'll be like hole in All right, otherwise I would lose horribly Definitely have a few goals like okay, so Dharma's not here Dharma golfs Kana Kana You didn't raise your hand or I think I couldn't see it Kana golfs

1:29:17
Patala golf EJ is almost pro and what about you you do golf?

1:29:23
Dude, we're gonna do like a save a golf trip because I golf too, just really bad. My first time golfing was some of our Japanese partners came to Hawaii and Hawaii is some great golf place. Okay, so it was my first time golfing. And Dharma was telling me how to do it. It was me, Dharma, and then three Japanese guys who golf. And then, somehow I did really well. It was my first time golfing. It was very zen mind, beginner's mind. I was like, oh, it's just like Japanese sword. It's time to go, isn't it? And then I ended up not losing. I came in fourth out of fifth. So I didn't lose, but I beat this guy, Kurekawa, who's been golfing for like 12 years. And then I was just like, oh, okay. I was like, wow. And they were like, wow, you did so... They were like, is this the first time you did golf at all, yeah? And they were like, wow. Because I was very focused. And somehow, I had some great... I did really good. Because then the next time I did it, it wasn't as good. But then at the end, I was just like, I was like, yeah. I was like. I was like, but wait a second. In the end I know what happened. I did pretty good for your first time, but I ended like, you know, 18 strokes behind Dharma who won. So I'm like, they Japanese me, which means they're like, Oh, we're going to respect you and not actually beat you. And so and they're like, and the lowest guy down the chain is going to take the hit. And he'll always be a stroke behind you. Which which probably was the case I don't know otherwise I just beat him but it's probably the case. Okay so my my little thing says it's crystal o'clock and very wonderful to sit with you. Know that you can be enlightened because you all have Buddha nature you're all enlightened already. You just don't recognize it

1:33:17
But enlightenment goes on and on by the way

1:33:20
little little peasley Like teeny enlightenment liberation. It's good because you're all whoo Now I'm not beating the shit out of myself anymore. I'm not holding myself back anymore but then anymore. But then enlightenment gets bigger and stronger and better. And then it becomes powerful. So this is we're just trying to get to the very basic part, which is really come on guys, stop the bullshit about like all your anger and self and his personal history, like recognize that you you are enlightenment. If you recognize that you are enlightenment That's liberation and then don't stop don't don't let anything quick But there was a time when I was six and somebody threw a pizza at me Like stop all that bullshit. This is what enlightenment is and then meditation It's good and then Leelas teaching don't wait What the fuck are you waiting for

1:34:29
rule

1:34:31
Hmm. No, I know I know I know I said it should take this long three years, but it could only take one year Or less And actually it doesn't even have to take a year. It has to take a moment where you have that recognition and where you meditate basically. You stop thought. Usually it takes a while for you to have some salvacopa samadhis, but it doesn't have to. Kundalini, once she fucking said, I need enlightenment now, she didn't have a whole bunch of salvacopa samadhis. She just was like, Nirvikalpa. Dun dun dun dun. Okay guys, thank you. Very happy to see you, to sit with you. I'm very, I have a lot of gratitude for Leila for her teaching with the intermediate students, because that's very helpful. She's talking about all the things that developed her, but we're going to have sessions in the future where she talks about the great parts of the advanced path and then she'll be able to also answer questions about her experience. Thank you so much she'll be able to also answer questions about her experience. Thank you so much guys. This is really beautiful. Enlightenment is real. It's true.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
