0:00:00
When you are looking to yourself to see the Dharma, you have to push off perhaps long-held beliefs. Wilson, right? He had these long-held beliefs in racist ideas. He grew up like that in his family. That's what his description of the world was. And it took him a while to figure out that that wasn't good. Or the King of the Whore. He had these beliefs that he Completely was you know dedicated to this is right. This is wrong up to the point where he would even murder his own daughter

0:00:58
so

0:00:59
We have to look at the things that we've been told the stories of our of our life It's called your description of the world Because you're told certain stories you tend to believe them after a while, and then you start to see life that way. It creates your outlook, the way that you understand life, the universe, and everything. But when you start to question it, you can find different ways, different ways that are powerful. So there's this story. There was this pack of weasels living in the forest, and the little weasels were going around. And what the weasels would do is they would go and eat other little animals, like they would eat snakes and stuff like that. So they would go hunting for snakes. And one day, there's a hawk, a baby hawk, and the baby hawk falls out of a tree and it lands on one of the weasels. And then, right in the middle of the pack of weasels. And then the weasels are looking at the baby hawk and they're like, can we eat this thing? Is it a snake? And they're like, no, I guess not. So they don't try to eat it and they go around looking for snakes. And then the baby hawk follows them. And then the baby hawk follows them, eats snakes because hawks can do that too. And then eventually grows up to be a big adult hawk. And then this hawk is going around. The weasels are just like, you know, this boy's crawling around. So the hawk never learned to fly, and just is walking around behind the weasels. And then one day, there's this adult hawk flying by, and it sees this other hawk following these weasels around. And then the hawk flies down to the other hawk and says, hey, what you doing walking around here with these weasels? And he's like, oh yeah, you know, we're looking for some snakes. He's like, I'm really good at catching snakes too, you know, because I fly around and I see them and I go, pew! And then this walking hawk, this weasel hawk says, fly? What is this flying thing? And then the hawk shows him flying. And then he's like amazed. He's like, I can't fly. And then he goes, of course you can. You're a hawk. He's like, oh no, but I've never flown. I've been walking around with the wheels and hunting in hunting snakes. And he had this belief from his experience that he could just walk. And finally this other hawk shows him to fly and then all of a sudden there's a whole new dimension to his life. He can fly around and do what comes natural to his being. So sometimes we're very, very hindered by the descriptions of the world that we're given and that we have a lot of capabilities to do more, to be great in so many wonderful ways, but we just don't believe it. We don't believe in ourselves. option to try. But when we can push off a limited description of the world, then we start to see bigger opportunities. It's also important because a lot of times, even what people call great success, is something that might not bring you happiness. So in America we have this thing called the American Dream, which is to have 2.3 children, a house with a bike picket fence, something like that, right? And a Ford in your driveway. And this is something that has been a motivation for generations here. It's to do pretty well and have a good kind of upper or I guess middle class life. And this is a dream that many people could find okay, and then it's also a dream where many people, if they even achieved that, would be very unhappy. So a lot of the things that society tells us, the dreams that society give us, this description of the world says, this is good, this is good, this is good. Achieve those things and you should be happy. But it's not necessary. It's not necessarily true that that will make you happy. So there's a product in America called the Cliff Bar or the Luna Bar also. It's made by the same So this is a, I guess we would call it a power bar of some sort. It's got high nutrients in it, so it's like if you're a runner or something, or hiking or something for a long time, you might have one of these bars with you. Take a break, eat it, gives you lots of energy. So, this cliff bar came about in 1991. There was a guy who was really into long bicycle And he was on a 175 mile bike ride with some friends and they were off on some mountain road for a long time. And they all had brought with them this nutrient rich bar called the Power Bar. So in the early 80s, some nutrition company came up with this thing called the Power Bar. And the Power Bar was this thing that all athletes would take with them and eat as a snack because it had a lot of energy and nutrients in it. So they'd be out, yeah, okay, going on my long run, my long bike ride, my long hike, got it, drink Power Bar or two. But because this was such a long one. And the power bar is very lightweight, so it's good for bringing with you on a long bike ride. So he had dozens of these power bars. And then one day, they covered 100 miles or something, and they kept taking breaks, drinking water, and eating power bars. And then by his fifth or sixth power bar, he was like, I would rather die than eat another one of these. Because some people say they don't like the taste. Tar bars are kind of like, if you can imagine a really thick paste that is grainy and also somehow a little sweet and also tastes like powder, and then it becomes dense and then you just eat it, that's what it is. Anyway, so if you eat one, you're like, I could eat it. But then if that's what you have to get through on an intense run or a bike ride, it could get a little bit bad. So he was just, on this one bike ride, he said, this is it. I hate this stuff. And everybody, that's what he did. He led these bike races and things like that, and he said, all the bikers always just eat this horrible bar. And he said, I'm going to change this. So he started, you know, he got, he went to his mother's kitchen, and his mother was a good baker, so he's like, hey mom, help me out, I don't know how to bake anything. So he starts like trying to come up with these new recipes. And he spends about a year doing it. And finally, he comes up with this all-natural, nutrient-rich energy bar that tastes good. And he goes to a big bicycle riders show, and he brings it, and he sells a lot. And then because of that niche, all these bikers are talking about it. They all start getting it so it goes around the bicycle community Mountain bikers and then finally runners and then finally like everybody so very quickly it grows in sales and He he got to think about I think in six years he got to about 20 million dollars in sales which is fantastic, right? But $20 million, it sounds like a lot, but then he's constantly reinvesting in the business, growing the business. So even though his business is making a lot of money, he's not making personally a lot of money and he's spending a lot of time and energy, it's like a lot of work. There's this big multi-billion dollar company called Quaker Oats and Quaker Oats has many different products and brands and they start to see that this energy bar market is something they want to get into. So they come over to Gary Erickson and then they say, we'll give you $120 million for your company." And he was like, okay, right? He's like, this is what it's all about. He's always been told, you know, like, grow a business, get acquired, have, you know, millions and millions of dollars and then retire early. You know, I think he was like 38 at the time. It's like, retire early and just live a great, happy life. Buy a boat, sail the Mediterranean, things like that. So these were all these ideas that he had. And so he was given this offer, too good to be true, so he started going forward with it, sure, definitely, just rolling through with it. And it was the day to finalize the acquisition and he sent off the last faxes to his lawyer in New York, he's in California, and his lawyer just had to double check everything and then go to Quaker and hand over the papers. And so that was the last thing to happen. He didn't have anything else to do and then he's like, wow, okay, I did it. It's like, I'm gonna have $100 million and I'm gonna do this, buy a house here, and buy a boat here, and do that. And then he thought about all the things that he always had these impressions to do as a success. And then he was thinking of houses, and boats, and trips, and vacations, and food, and just all the great things. And so he's just like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And then after a moment of going through the whole process of all the great things he's going to have, then he's like, he went from thinking of all these great things to just bursting out into tears. And he was like, he was like, those don't make me happy. He's like, it doesn't make me happy at all. And yet, this is what I was always going for. I was going for, I'm building this company to be wealthy. And this was going to be the end. This is where my wealth comes in. And then he just was like, this doesn't make me happy. Then he thought about it, and he said, tell you how he thought to himself, the thing that makes me happy is actually running this business and doing a good job. So then when his lawyer was just about to hand over the acquisition papers, he called her, she picked up her phone and he said, deal is over. And then she went, pull the papers back. So then he kept the business and he developed it and grew it the way that he wanted to and created a really happy corporate culture and just really positive things. A big part of the Cliff Bar is this community outreach non-profit. He's just doing very positive things, making it a company that he's proud of being a part of and making a very good and healthy product that doesn't taste horrible. And then he became very happy and ultimately he became much more successful. Now the Clif Bar company is worth over $6 billion. So just going for the story that was a long-held belief of what happiness is and success is, it wasn't something that ultimately fulfilled him. And he didn't realize it until he was about to lose it, about to give it away, about to attain that long-held belief of what makes you happy. So, it's very important to know yourself and to have, not to sell out, and to have integrity, spiritual integrity in what you're doing in your life. And then, when you face hardships and difficulties, you'll have a certain kind of power, a power from being connected to truth and knowing that truth. Not being false to yourself, not following somebody else's idea of success, but knowing from your own experience what works for you, and that that gives you a tremendous power. And when you're facing difficulties in life, which might happen once or twice, if you're coming from this place of authenticity, then you can face great hardship, great difficulty, but with a very positive mind, a positive spirit. And the teaching is, you are proficient in mind training if you can practice even facing difficulty. So, in meditation, you want to sit down and experience intergalactic bliss and oneness and all this stuff, but you might sit down and realize, wow, I just have lots of thoughts, an avalanche of thoughts. And then you're like, oh, I've got all these disturbing emotions. You might sit down and say, okay, I'm going to do Bodhicitta, I'm going to do this beautiful act of compassion. And then you might find all these limited ideas. You might find that you have all this self that pushes back against people instead of opening up and giving them light. So when you're practicing meditation in bodhicitta, what often occurs is a lot of struggle. And you're like, oh, I can't even play the first four notes of my bodhicitta. Yes, you can! So it's like you start to face the beginning. And when you have this, when you know yourself, when you are constantly looking at yourself to see the truth within you, then you can face difficulty and still practice very, very well. The first thing to realize is that in meditation and in bodhicitta, Sita, you're not going to war. You're not going to war with your thoughts and your feelings. You're not going to war with struggling against other people and things. You're opening your awareness and you're seeing what's there and you're facing it directly. When you sit to focus and meditate, you see what comes up, what pops. You just accept them, but you're not just there to accept them. I had a bad thought and feeling, I accept it. We say, okay, I had a bad thought and feeling, might come up. We accept that that could come up, and if it comes up, we accept that it's there. But we don't accept it as in, okay, now I'll bring that into my mind and my experience. We accept that it's there, and then we redirect our attention to focus. So, this is how we do it. But we don't just sit there and fight against it and go, oh, I'm all mad. I'm going to struggle with this thing. Because then every time a thought comes up, you'll be struggling with that thought. Another thought will come up and you'll struggle with that thought. So that engages karma of thoughts and feelings, right? And what we want to do is just recognize it and redirect to focus. And then that way we're not fighting against it and we're refocusing on a higher Dharma that will bring us to understand it and to make it fall into place. There was this cute little cartoon that I saw once where there was this samurai sitting there meditating. So he was sitting there and he had his sword and he was meditating in some, you know, zendo or something. And then he was very serious about his concentration and this little fly is flying around and it's annoying him. So, he like looks at it, goes back to meditation, comes around, he's like looking at it, goes back to meditation, and it's just going... So finally he gets mad and he pulls the sword and he cuts it in half. Then cheeses the sword, goes back to his meditation. And then all of a sudden there's two flies. And they're bothering him more so he eventually cuts both of them in half. Goes back to meditation. And then guess what? There's four. And then he kills them, and then eight. And then all of a sudden, he's killing all these flies. He's just sitting there killing flies. And then there's so many of them that he can't sit anymore, because he's just too busy, distracted by flies. So if you're sitting there going, I'm going to meditate. Oh, I had a bad thought. And then you start thinking about the bad thought. I'll deal with this thought, I'm going to fix this thought, I'll get to the end of this thought, and then I'll get back to my meditation. Yeah, just don't do that. Let the fly be. And if there's a fly, then let the bee fly. And then go back to focus. And be so strong in your focus that the little fly that's buzzing around, or maybe the many flies that are buzzing around, don't distract you. So you are proficient in mind training when you don't let these thoughts and these feelings and these ideas distract you from the practice of the Dharma. So that means that all these things are going on, but you go, I'm not distracted. I'm still focusing. It's like this one time, I was with another student of my teacher's years ago in a three Michelin star restaurant in Manhattan. And it's this beautiful restaurant, but it's Manhattan. So that means that the table next to you is this far away. Yeah, it's true. In Manhattan, they put tables really close to each other, even in this really fine restaurant. So in this fine restaurant, having fine dining, and sitting next to us, there's a lawyer who's giving bad news to his client. So we're sitting there talking about like Buddhism, all this fun stuff, and then the table right next to us is having this intense conversation about bad things. So the lawyer's all, oh, here's all these problems, these problems, this problem, it's going to cost you this, this, and this. And then the client's mad and arguing with the lawyer. And yet, the food is delicious. The food is just amazing. So they're like all, this real heated conversation, and then they come back to the food. Oh my God, it's so delicious. Did you try the duck? You know, and stuff like that. So this is how we want to be. Even if you have to deal with intense things, if they're happening in your mind, come back and try the duck. So, yeah, so those moments of stillness and meditation, the reflections on the Dharma, practicing bodhicitta, it's so good. It's so beautiful. And then when some weird thought comes over, just recognize that it's there, but come back to that wonderful, wonderful feeling of quietness, stillness, luminosity, peace of the Dharma. This is good. Now there's really two types of difficulties. The first type is what I would call a hardship. And a hardship is something that is a really intense problem in the physical world. So I like to face the most intense things. Because if you can face the most intense things in the physical world, then when not so intense ones come up, you can go, okay. So the samurai, there's this book called the Hagukeri, the book of the samurai. They say, here's the principles and the ways of thinking that a samurai will reflect on. And one of them is, reflect on all the ways of dying. In fact, they say meditate on death. Like imagine yourself going through all sorts of horrible ways of being killed on the battlefield or off the battlefield, or all the worst ways of death. And then if you sit there and go, hmm, I might get hit with an arrow, a spear, my head might get chopped off, someone might use it as a football and kick it over a fence, I don't know, whatever. You think about all these things. And if you reflect on them, this is the way that the samurai would overcome the fear of death. And then if you've overcome the fear of death and other little things like going public speaking or something, it might not be so bad. So this is something that you would do you would face the most difficult things And then by facing these difficult things you can Take them to heart understand them and then deal with life. So these hardships that you would face You know hardships great hardships that people have in life are things like you know financial hardships or they don't have enough for, you know, basic means, you know, for food or power, energy. There's a lot of social, societal kind of hardships, and that might be because of your race or nationality, your gender. You might be in a country that has just a lot of societal limitation. Lack of opportunity, lack of access to education, illness. So there's like, you can think of like some of those really big things that really affect people's lives. You can consider those intense hardships. And then when you consider the intense hardships and the little things that come in your way are not so bad, or maybe you face the intense hardships, and then you face it with the Dharma. Even though the intense hardships come up, you know, the pandemic started, so she was all afraid, and then she got fired from her job, and then she's so stressed out about losing her apartment and not having money and stuff. And then he moves out. And then she's totally sad about that. And then her father got COVID-19. And then he was put on a ventilator and didn't know if he was going to live or die. And at that moment, she was facing great hardships. And in the face of the great hardships, she said, what do I do? What do I do? What's the Buddhist thing to do to solve my job, my heartbreak, the fears that I have about this whole pandemic thing, and my father, is he gonna live? And I said, Bodhisitta. And she was like, how is that gonna solve anything? And he said, because it has to. So the great thing about great hardships is that with all your personal power, you can't fix it. It's beyond you. The ego cannot withstand it. It's something much more big than the ego. So, if there's anything that you can manipulate and fix in a self way, then you're always going to, or you always have the capability of the self dealing with life. The self with all of its desires and attachments, its fears, it can deal with things. But when something enough, big enough, hardship, then the self can't fix it. And this is where you can go into the practice of Dharma, into meditation or into compassion, where you're honest, where you're beyond self, because you know the self can't do it. And then this means that you can throw yourself completely into compassion, completely into the spirit. And in doing so, you come to a higher awareness beyond this physical world, beyond a karmic condition, whether it be financial or illness, relationship or life and death, even beyond life and death. Spirit transcends life and tremendous hardship if you practice earnestly. So she practiced bodhicitta earnestly. And in that experience, facing all of these hardships that she had, and especially because all of them came at the same time, her ego couldn't deal with it. And so she practiced earnest and true bodhicitta. And she came to a spiritual realization. And it's one that you probably can't put into words. She tried to in her bodhicitta assignment, but she was unable to really put it into words, but she was able to express the result. she called it a great woman is peace. Facing all these hardships, all things were up in the air, unknown, is it going to turn out good or bad? But she was able to do deep bodhicitta, and in that deep practice of bodhicitta, she came to a spiritual balance. So I always like to say, if you're having a really, really hard time, really hard time, then put these teachings to the test. Because these teachings are supposed to bring you to deeper realization, greater understanding, to deeper peace, to a spiritual condition of awareness of your life and your experience that is beyond karma. And if you're facing a karma that is so painful, so difficult, that the self can't solve, that you're suffering from, then go into these teachings and use them. Put them to the test. See if they work. As Buddha said, don't take it on faith that these work, try it, see if it works. And I think if you try earnestly and you're clear in dealing with reality, you'll see that even in any hardship and dealing with any difficulty, your practice of the Dharma is strong and reveals a greater truth, a higher awareness that is beyond good and bad, life and death. So this is important. Now the other kind of distraction is what I call the doings of the mind. And these are the things that one does in one's life. Shakespeare said something about that, right? He's all, we sit around doing a whole bunch of things but most of it doesn't matter. I forgot how he said it. He said it in Elizabethan English. But yeah, we do a lot of things. We spend a lot of energy doing a lot of things, kind of routines and attached views. It's also what we call the toenail of the day, or the toenail of this period, there's things that you've got to do. It's all this toenail, and there's all these habits that people get into with their toenail. For example, I had a student, she's a mother and has a family, and she was in these routines of doing. And it was cleaning, cooking, waking the kids up, getting them to school. Just all of her attention, or a lot of her attention was wound up in that. Just living life, the routines of the mind, the doings of the mind. You have to do those things. But when you're just in the doings of the mind, you have a very limited view of life. And those things then become a distraction. You say, oh I wanted to meditate, but then I had to do this, and I had to do that. I had to do this for the kids. I had to make food. I had to clean the house. So I was like, there's more to life than cooking and cleaning.

0:36:08
So when you are distracted by cooking and cleaning

0:36:13
and the doings of life, then you're cut off from spirit. But then if you start to actually look into it more deeply, cooking and cleaning becomes your yoga. Cooking and cleaning becomes an expression of compassion. So then, with the teachings of Bodhicitta, she considered, hmm, I've got to cook and I've got to clean. But But why am I doing this? I'm not doing it just to do it. She got in touch with her love for her family and her compassion for her family. She's trying to help her children be healthy and strong, have a good life. So she got in touch with her love and compassion through her actions of cooking and cleaning and all the errands you have to run. And then everything that was just a routine distraction became the yoga of compassion. So we have to change this routine into the pathway of awakening, and then it's no longer a distraction. This is what they say in Zen Buddhism, right? They say, before enlightenment, chalk would carry water. After enlightenment, chalk would carry water. So this means that before, it's some kind of routine. And then after, there's something but it's the enlightened path so it's very important to realize this and now you know a lot of us are in the The world of you know social networking and social media and And that comes a routine, you know, you're sitting there, you know checking your Twitter feed or something like that And it's like what are you doing? Twitter feed or something like that. And it's like, what are you doing? Yeah, these things are, they become a doing and you just go right into it. You just start doing these things. And it's a doing and it's not awakening. So there was some big hacking attack on Twitter, and it took down Twitter just for a little while. But for a little while, people couldn't tweet back and forth. So they had to communicate the old-fashioned way through Facebook. So when we get into these social media things, you're getting into something that becomes doing that you your consciousness starts to get and you get into this weird way of communicating with people it's very strange there's more than that to the world. Social media and social networking is kind of like an It's like, you have no problem getting committed into it. You think it's no problem until you try to leave. And then you go, whoa. You get into that and then you're like, do I want to stop tweeting? You get into this weird view of the world. Now, I recommend creating a social networking platform as your yoga. Or somehow make social... Instead of just making it a tool of personal expression and communication and networking, make it something that's empowering. Empowering to your career, your yoga. Make your relationships through it and your communications something that is yoga or empowering. Don't just try to spread your weird dharmic messages. You're like, here's a picture of a spider eating a mouse.

0:40:43
Isn't that like enlightenment? You're like, uh-uh, no.

0:40:45
I didn't do that.

0:40:46
Yeah, so, you know, when we're looking at the world that we live in, we have a lot of routines that we go into, the doings of our tonal, the world. And we have to make sure that we're doing those things where we're connected to yoga, where we're connected to spirit, where you're not just mindlessly doing it. You're not just playing the structures of the game that they created for you. It's very important. facing hardships, if you have that, in your heart, you have that intent to use that hardship to bring you into a greater awareness, you have that intention that everything in your life is going to be looking deeper into the self, deeper meditation, deeper awareness of compassion, then when difficulties come up, you're able to practice anyway. That's what this teaching is about, this slogan. Even when difficulties come up and distract you. I like this thing that we used to do in baseball. In baseball, you get up behind the plate, and then the pitcher is going to throw the ball, and you're supposed to hit it. And then all the little kids, we would do this thing where we're trying to psych out the batter. And, I don't know, we used to say like, hey, batter, batter, and we would like clap. And we're trying to like get the batter to swing at the wrong time. So we would like yell at the batter and clap our hands and try to get them to not look at the ball and to like swing at the wrong time. And so, the funny thing about it was, it worked sometimes. And that was something that we just did, you know, when we were growing up playing baseball. So, to be able to practice and not be distracted means that you are very focused on the ball, right? You don't let all those other distractions take you away. You're very focused, and even though there are distractions around, you can still hit a home run. I also remember that in martial arts, so one time I was at a martial arts tournament and I remember there was this one black belt who was, he looked like a movie star or something. He looked really cool and he could move really well. Anyone who he stood up against, he would just kind of like fake them out or something. He would move weird and he would kiya, he'd be like, hi-ya, right? And whenever he would yell, I would see in the eyes of his opponent, it threw them off a little bit, just like the A-batter swing thing. So I was just watching him fight, and I was like, oh, he's tripping everybody out, I could tell, just from watching. And then eventually I went in to fight him, and I was just like, all right, so I'm like, I'm laser focused. I'm like, I know what I want to do. I just want a clean opening, clean attack. And he starts doing this thing where he's like dancing around or something like that. And I'm just laser focused. And then he like, he eyes, and I'm like, bam, I get the point. And so I got three points in a row, and everyone's all, wow, you won. That's kind of cool. But this guy, he was very, I don't know, he had this whole song and dance and he was just playing everybody and tripping them out. But then I wasn't distracted, I was laser focused. Then I was able to succeed that way. So, yeah, or it's like that in scuba. And in scuba diving, if you go very deep underwater, you start to get this thing called nitrogen narcosis. So if you're deep underwater, it sort of feels like, like you have a couple, you're like, oh, whoa.

0:45:55
And you start to lose a little bit of coordination

0:46:00
and also people lose judgment. So when mystic scuba divers go deep underwater, they actually practice very strong focus. So you might go deep underwater, but instead of losing coordination, you maintain coordination, you maintain judgment, and you keep a very, very, very strong focus, actually a laser focus. And so that's a practice of going into a place where you would normally get distracted in the areas where you start to experience nitrogen narcosis. And you go to those areas and then you start to practice extreme focus. And then the thing that would have been a distraction to you ends up being an aid to your awareness. What's another one? Oh, there's this other really great one. So this is a teaching of So, one of the Art of War teachings is, attack where the enemy does not defend. And there's a really good example of this. This example comes from Attila the Hun, who was a student of the Art of War. Just kidding, I don't know, maybe in a past life. Anyway, so Attila the Hun had a very, very successful technique strategy. And this strategy is how Attila was able to win many, many, many battles. And so what Attila would do is bring his cavalry up against some army, and then they would kind of start fighting, and then he would run away. He'd say, retreat. And then they would start, his cavalry would start running away. And then the opponent army would say, oh, we have them on the run, let's go chase them. So the whole army would be chasing. And while they're chasing, they don't have a good defense, because they're really trying to catch up. and the Hungarians, the Huns, were very good at riding their horses and also taking a bow and arrow, turning around and shooting. So, normally, if you want to be effective at hitting a target, you wouldn't be on a horse. Right, whether you have a bow and arrow, you wouldn't be on a horse. But the Hungarian, or the Hun army, they were very, very, very excellent, very, very, very perfect with their aim while on a full retreat on a horse. So they could ride the horse perfectly, which would normally be a distraction from aiming with a bow. And they were undistracted, and they were very effective. And so they were able to win many, many, many battles. Because the enemy that's chasing them, they were not in defense mode. They were in an offense mode, so they weren't defending. And then that's when the Hun army would attack. And then after they realized that they were getting wiped out by arrows, then the Huns would turn around and come back in and win. So, it's just great. Yeah, so, there's many lessons in many areas of life for facing difficulty and yet being very, very, very good, very, very effective in your achievement. I remember when I was learning computer programming, first I was really bad at it. I was really struggling with it. And if it had been up to just me, I would have definitely failed at it. But I was able to, you know, so learning this was a big distraction for me because it came up against a lot of my thoughts of what I can do, what I couldn't do, who I was, all these weird self-reflections. And if it was just up to my self-reflection, I wouldn't have been able to succeed. I wouldn't have been successful. Those self-reflections and karmas, my outlook of who I was, my self-description, would have been too much of a distraction. But because I was taking it as a lesson of yoga, a spiritual lesson, I let go of all of these karmas, let go of all these ideas of self and what I can do and I can't do. And I said, I'm just learning yoga. And by constantly having myself say, no, you're not good at math. You can't do this. No, you don't like computers. All this stuff coming up, I just was able to push those to the side and continue to focus on learning yoga. And so learning yoga meant learning to be selfless in the work that I was doing, not saying, I can't, I can't, I believe I can't, but just coming back to the practice. And so I just came back to the practice again and again and again, and it was successful. So this is really wonderful. Ultimately, when at practicing mind training, even when you're distracted, what occurs is your practice becomes automatic. So for meditation, for example, let's say that you're sitting and meditating, and then let's say that a dog barks outside, or in your house, right? So if someone's meditating, and then a dog barks, or a baby cries or something For most people that would distract them But if you have strong meditation the moment that the dog barks there's some Energy and that means that if you're focusing on the chakra and a dog barks there should be more focus on the chakra immediately It doesn't distract you it actually makes your focus stronger This is like what the Zen masters did when you're like a little bit meditating and The Zen master sees that you're not focused Zen master comes behind you with a stick and then that's just what and then the Zen monk would go all and it would snap them into stronger concentration. It wouldn't make them fall off and go, okay, I quit, I can't meditate. It makes them meditate stronger. So, dog barking, baby crying, car horn honking, or whatever, right? These things should not distract you, they should give you stronger know, what happens, you know, if you accidentally, you know, put your finger in a fire or something, you go, ow, it hurts, right? So the moment that you feel pain and suffering, you're right there to immediately have support, compassion, aid, comfort. And so that must be the way that it is from practice. If you see someone who's suffering in any way, you immediately respond from compassion. It just automatically happens. It's not a distraction. It's not a, oh, this guy's mad and it's bothering me. Oh, this guy's sad and I don't want to get sad. No self-defense. The moment someone goes into a hardship is the moment that you meet it with compassion. So this is what the final outcome of this teaching is. It's that we can practice when things that would normally be called distractions occur and that ultimately that anything that comes up as a distraction All right, so I'd like to conclude with an esoteric teaching. And I'd like you to sit up nice and straight. We're going to sit for one song, and this song I'd like you to just focus on the third eye. And look up here towards me. And this transmission is called The Extent. Yeah, look to me and you will see the extent of proficiency in mind

0:55:17
training. All right? Let's begin. so so so the the the so you so Very nice. Very nice. Thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
