0:00:00
Hello, welcome to Satsang. Okay, we're going to begin today with meditation. We're going to meditate for one song on the heart chakra. Oh

0:00:17
Oh,

0:00:19
so So so So so so so All right. So, today I'd like to conclude the Lojong teachings, the seventh point, which is guidelines of mind training. So, guidelines

0:05:51
of mind training are methods for you to understand your mind. They are ways to develop a deeper awareness, more of an insightful consciousness. So the mind training gives you a way to understand your thoughts, your emotions, your reactions, so that you can develop the mind. You can direct your thoughts and you can shed confusing feelings. So mind training is a way to structure the mind, structure your awareness field, develop your character, we call it, right? Develop your character in the way of truth, the way of dharma. So, it is a practice to really elevate your spirit, elevate the thoughts in your mind, the feelings running through your body, what you're aware of, the way that you interact with life, the way of elevating your experience through these guidelines, these practices, these methods. These are ways that create merit. They are ways of truth that create greater experiences of truth. They're positive, constructive, they're helpful, and ultimately, they're ways to make one harmless. Harmless towards oneself and towards others. So we don't think bad thoughts and hurt ourselves. We don't have negative feelings and hurt ourselves. And we are allies and aids to others to relieve their suffering. So, guidelines, mind training guidelines are easy to understand and at the surface they're very simple. You say, oh, yeah, okay, makes sense. But as you practice them, they have Lojong guidelines are practices that open the doorway to enlightenment. So they're simple in understanding. They're applicable to many, many situations and they lead to liberation. So the guidelines are always constructive, they're always helpful, they're very accessible. Now, these are the Bojong mind training guidelines. Now, in the world, there's other guidelines. There's guidelines for all sorts of things. And then one hunter just gasps for air, falls down, and then his friend is looking at him. He's not breathing. His eyes are all glazed over. And he's like, Oh my gosh, what happened? I don't know. So he pulls out his phone, calls 911, And he says, hey, my friend just fell down dead. And then the 911 operator, the emergency operator, says, okay, what happened? And then he goes, I don't know, you know, we're just out here and he just stopped breathing. And then the emergency operator is going through the guidelines. Okay, so first of all, we gotta check to make sure he's dead, and then we're going to, and then all of a sudden,

0:10:34
pew!

0:10:35
This big shot goes off.

0:10:36
And then he goes, okay, what's next? See, ambiguous guidelines. So, when we have the Lojong guidelines, they're not ambiguous. They never lead to confusion. Do you notice that when you're learning about all of these slogans, these Lojong teachings? They're very simple and they're not confusing. They're very applicable to your life. So, one of the Lojong teachings is, take up the three resources. Now this is a very fundamental teaching. The three resources, or the three precious resources in Buddhism, or in the Lojong, is first, a spiritual teacher, second, the practice of Dharma, and third, wealth. Isn't that great? So, the spiritual teacher is very important, because if you don't have an authentic spiritual teacher, then you can get into a lot of trouble, hardship, difficulty. And an inauthentic spiritual teacher gives poor advice and gets you into a lot of trouble. Because they're giving you what we call adharma. They're telling you something that is not truth, if they're not a real teacher. At best, an inauthentic teacher just tells you random things, so it's just kind of shuffling the chaos. But if you don't have an authentic teacher, you can get into a lot of confusion, hearing spiritual practices that don't work, that don't expose greater truth, that don't help extricate you from suffering, that don't develop and empower you. So it's very important to have a bad sensei. I remember a martial arts tournament where there was this really weird kung fu style I've never seen before. I don't even remember what it was called. It was like the five drunken animals or something like that. And I'm like, which one is that? Is that the crane? Nope. That's the tiger. The sleepy tiger. And anyway, I was watching these guys fight in the tournament and they had a definite style, it just didn't work very well. So they all got beaten very easily, and they had very weird techniques. It was hilarious. So if you've got a bad martial arts teacher, they might teach you all this weird stuff, and they might have all these really interesting insights now. You know if you fight when you're relaxed, it's better. If you get punched in the face and you're relaxed, it's better. So let's practice that. So I've seen lots of funny martial arts. But I remember this one tournament where there was like 10 guys from the school. And they had the weirdest fighting style, and nothing worked. But they might have been practicing getting punched in the face. So maybe a different judge. So a good, authentic teacher is important. In our lineage, a teacher not only has a breadth of knowledge from reading books, but is a yogi, has actual spiritual insight from experience. And in our lineage, a teacher is empowered. They receive lineage transmissions, so that through esoteric means, they can transmit the teachings. So, the teachers in our lineage are embodiments of enlightenment, and the teachers in our lineage can bring forth not only interesting ideas or spiritual concepts, but also they can transmit a direct experience of the Dharma.

0:16:01
This is good.

0:16:02
Yeah, so, it's important to have a proper teacher. Otherwise, it doesn't work so well. I remember a time where there were these two guys, they were like best friends and they could do every technique. They can do these amazing kicks, jumping, split, spinning kicks, and I was like, wow. And so they looked like these amazing martial artists when you saw them doing this, all these techniques, you're like, wow, they're so good. They learned it themselves by watching movies. The movies were their teacher. And then they came into a karate dojo, and then even the green belts could beat them very easily. Because, and the green belts couldn't, they didn't have the athletic ability to do the splits or to jump and spin like these guys and But but the green belts were learning the power of the art So in learning any inner art you're actually transforming your awareness You're not just in the same physical awareness, you start to have deeper insight into different ways of power, different aspects of an inner art that you can then bring out from training. So without a teacher, that is something that is hidden. That's why they call the enlightened teachings the secret teachings, because if you don't practice it, you don't even see it. An enlightened teacher could be sitting right next to you and you don't even see him, because you don't see them, so they're invisible, unless you start to engage. So a teacher exposes deeper aspects of the art. So a karate sensei can show a very simple punch, but with that simple punch, they could show you many dimensions of power that are very different than if you watch Bruce Lee movies and you try to follow Bruce Lee. You might be able to get the outer form of Bruce Lee's movements perfect, but to get that power that's within the realm of the art, it takes someone who's got that awareness field that's open to those dimensions. So proper teacher is important. And proper practice is important. That's why these are the precious resources. Without the proper teacher, you're nowhere. It's like, you know, not a lot of people actually practice the Dharma.

0:19:45
Even Buddhist monks, I mean, they

0:19:48
walk around wearing robes, they have a lifestyle. But in their minds, they're not constantly constantly practicing mindfulness, constantly practicing bodhicitta, constantly being self-effacing, cutting down the ego. They're just living a life. So, not a lot of people actually practice And it's important to practice the Dharma because it is by practicing the Dharma that you can transform your karma that keeps you in dissatisfaction and suffering and limitation. So just by putting your mind into these lojong teachings, into practicing bodhicitta, you you are able to, in a very material way, transform your life. But you have to have the proper teachings. You have to have the right, yeah, structures. Otherwise, it doesn't work. It's kind of like if you pick up a violin and you just say, I'm going to learn the violin. You start to just play. It doesn't go so well. You'll sit there and play the violin and it will sound horrible for years, versus if you have proper instruction, you go to the conservatory or something, you're classically trained, then you'll just sound horrible in the beginning. And then as you learn, as you practice, as you play, you'll end up sounding perfect. But if you just pick up the violin and just start fiddling around, it doesn't work so well. So there was this guy, and he grabbed a violin, he just started, I'm going to learn the violin, started playing it, it's all, meow, meow, meow, meow. And then while he was playing, his dog would just sit there and howl. Because the violin, unless you've developed the skilled hands, sounds pretty bad in the beginning. And then his mother comes over and says, can you just play a song that the dog doesn't know? So it's very important to have the proper practices. And then, a surprising one is wealth. This is one of the great and precious dharmic resources. So, even at the time when this teaching was formulated, over a thousand years ago, by a monk called Chekhawa, he recognized that it was necessary, even for Buddhist monks, to have a certain degree of wealth. So, lay practitioners, they needed to have a certain degree of wealth to support their practice. And so did the monks. So when the community is wealthy enough, then the community can build beautiful temples, can supply the monks with their needs. You need to have basic things like food, shelter, clothing. These are simple things, but you must have them. Otherwise, if you don't, then you'll be spending all of your energy just getting enough to eat, trying to get warm. Remember, these teachings came from Tibet. Not everybody knew the tumo, warming energy. So, Chakravart, he was like, it's very important to have enough financial tonal. It's a precious resource of the Mahayana teachings. So, this is something that we put in to practice. You know, we have to recognize that, you know, we live in, you know, these kind of, let's say, expensive cities. So if you didn't have a home, a place, or food, then it would be pretty rough. In the Western world, the tonal of the Western world is that if you don't have enough wealth, then you suffer. There's an energy of the tonal of the Western world that actually pushes you down. And if you don't have enough money, financial tonal to, within the tonal of society, be able to get along. And to have that level of tonal takes a lot of personal power. So it takes you developing skills, developing career, right livelihood, so that you can have the resources that you need to support your spiritual practice. So wealth is important. And that's why, fortunately, in our school, we make the financial tornado, getting the proper level of wealth, we make that our spiritual practice. So these are good things. Now, a lot of Dharma people, they say, yeah, but But I don't have enough. There's people in Beverly Hills who don't have enough. They think, I don't have enough. Or there's all sorts of difficulty and I'm powerless. So we have to recognize that when we have the three precious resources, that's everything that we need. Those are precious resources, aids to your enlightenment. And if you have those things, that's all you need. This is great. And you probably have all those things. But even if you don't, so if you have all those things, practice enlightenment, because it brings you greater balance and success. But even if you don't have those things, it's okay. Even if you don't have those things, you practice the Dharma, and then the three precious resources come to you. So there's a story about, I think this was 400 years after the time of the Buddha. There was an Arhant, one of, in the Buddha lineage, an enlightened monk. And he was traveling, and he came to a land, and he gave a teaching. And he just came out to the countryside and gave a teaching. Now, there happened to be a nearby farm owned by a man named Sumana. Sumana had a slave. Back in India there were slaves, still are. This slave was Anabura. Anabura, while working away, could hear the Arhant's Dharma talks. And Sumana went to the Dharma talk and said, Hey, you stay back there. And then Anubhara heard the talk and was like, Wow, this is so amazing, so much truth and beauty and amazement. And Sumana also was very touched by the amazing teaching. So then that evening, the arhant was about to leave or walking by, and then Anabura didn't have anything except for his daily meal, which was gruel, like nasty food. I don't know what it was. It was some low, gruelly kind of food. And he didn't have anything else, so he's like, you know what, this is all I have, so I'm going to offer it to the Arhant. So the Arhant and his entourage of noble Buddhists are walking by. And then Anubhara comes out with this bowl of gruel and says, please, Arhant, I would like to make this offering of sustenance to you. And then all the monks are like, Oh my God, that's terrible. Our arhat only eats fancy food. But the arhat bows to him, takes it, and then eats it as his daily meal. And then in that offering, the anubhara has this amazing bliss. He's just transformed, and he's bright and happy. So then he goes back onto the farm, and then Simana comes over to yell at him, because that's what he usually does. He's like, you didn't do enough farming, or whatever. And then he sees Annabarra, and Annabarra is just sitting there in light and bright and happy. And then Sumana says, what's going on with you? And then he says, well, I made this offering to the Arhant of my dinner, and then I got some inner teaching and I'm so happy and fulfilled. And then Sumana says, well, you're my slave, so I order you to give me some of that bliss." And then Simana goes, hmm, okay. He's like, how do I do that? And then he says, no, Annaburra says, how do I do this? And then he says, okay. And then he said, so, though I'm your slave and I don't have any possessions, and I don't have anything of much value, I was able to give the Arhant his daily meal, which was the gruel that you give me. So, therefore, if you didn't give me this gruel, I would have not had this blessing from the Arhant in my offering. So, actually, the offering came from you, Samana. And then Samana, all of a sudden, realizes, Wow, I gave to the Archons, and becomes filled with light and bliss. And then, you know, considering this, he said, Oh, this is wonderful. And then he says, You know what, Annaburra? This is great, this is wonderful, and you've given me a great teaching. So, I am going to give you the farm, and I'm going to go and follow the Arhat." And he's like, so you're free, take my farm, and he goes and follows the Arhat. And then the next thing you know, Anubhara's there. And Anubhara's all, I got bored of the farm. He's like, that bliss that came from the offspring, from the arhant, is what I want to follow. And so then he becomes a monk too. And then the two of them become wonderful friends. So Anubhara didn't have very much, didn't have a strong degree of wealth, only had one teaching, didn't have any practices, but followed the Dharma. And by following the Dharma, there was bliss, and then this brought the teacher, the teachings, and the wealth. So this is important. It's important to recognize when bodhichitta works, when you practice it even a little bit and you see that Something works and that gives you more personal power it really strengthens your focus and your awareness of where to You know apply the pressure. I remember we lived in Chicago for a while. And we would do our martial arts training, we rented a space at an Aikido dojo after hours. But there was this one nice Aikido, I think he was like a brown belt, or maybe even lower. But he was a nice guy, training real hard, good at doing the wrist locks, Aikido. He was at a store, a little corner store nearby the dojo, and somebody was holding up the store with a knife, and was asking the guy for money, the cashier, with a knife. And then he walked over, and he just did the Aikido technique, and it's the one that you practice, you know, knife takeaway number one. And then he took the knife away from the guy. And so, it's something that he practiced in the dojo a lot. And you know, in the dojo, it's like, here, there's my hand, with a fake knife. And then you go, right? And then he did it in real life. And then afterwards he was telling people in the dojo about it. He was like, wow, it was just like what we practice. And then he said, I just grabbed and I just did the basic technique and then the knife came out and then the guy ran away. And then because he had that validation from his experience, then all of a sudden he was like a much more powerful. He went from being a practitioner to being like a martial artist in that moment. So when you practice the Dharma and you see that the Dharma works, then you go from just kind of like, oh, this is an interesting thought, well, wouldn't it be nice, wouldn't it be interesting to practice compassion, to, well, I practiced compassion and it created a, something happened, and looked like he wasn't going to make it, and he needed assistance. Her sister had lived far away and had kids, so she couldn't come and help, so then my student went to help her father. Now she had a horrible relationship with her father. Just ever since she was like 12, they would argue. He was just mean and nasty. That's how her relationship was with him. And then so she goes over to help him. She's not very excited about it. And then he's sick. He needs assistance. He needs like help every hour and a half, but he's still mean and nasty. He's cantankerous, and he's yelling at her and complaining all the time. And saying, you know, back when you were a kid, you were always a bad kid. You know, just constantly saying all the things that used to make her mad. And it did make her mad in the beginning. And then she practiced bodhicitta. And she was just like, you know, I'm getting really bothered, and this brings up all the difficulties of my life, and it's so hard. And then she said, you know what, I'm just going to get angry and feel bad, and I'm here to help my father because ultimately I love him. So instead of getting angry, I really need to practice bodhicitta." So she practiced. She practiced sitting practice. And then while she was helping him, she practiced when he was complaining, when he was angry, when she could see he's frustrated, she would practice mindful tonglen. And then she realized, first it was in sitting relative bodhicitta practice, she realized that there was a beautiful bliss of compassion when she practiced taking realized over the next days or weeks that when he was complaining and angry, instead of reacting the way she would normally, and feel bad and get mad, she would just practice, she would hold in her mind Bodhicitta. She would practice taking and sending mindfully she wasn't upset. So she recognized, oh, these are the things that used to trigger me. I used to get upset, I used to get mad, I used to get sad. And there's this whole personal history of that. But when she practiced bodhicitta, that didn't happen. And she was happy. She was like, oh, so I could be here to help my father, who I love, and the things that always bothered me, they are small when I practice compassion. And when I practice compassion, I feel better, but then I can also bring my father more positive, balanced attention and help so that he's more comfortable during this difficult time with his suffering. And then she practiced and practiced, and then her father stopped complaining. And then her father would say, you know, something good is happening, you're really, really helping me. And then her father would say, yeah, it's like, you know, you're very bright and things like that. He's not spiritual at all. And then, luckily, this cancer went into remission and he's still alive and doing well. So it's very important when you commit to true compassion, true taking and sending, to these lojong teachings, to the slogans, and you really commit yourself to these practices, you see that they work, that it brings a different condition in your mind. And then, because you're brighter, you see more opportunities to help others, and you can have a more positive effect. And then when you see these things happen, this strengthens your practice is able to grow from there. But you have to really take a look at those times where it works, and then really understand that, and then develop your practice around those experiences. Because bodhicitta is not just a thought. It's something that is a power. It's an energy. It's a luminosity of spirit. So sometimes people have painful thoughts or painful feelings and then they do bodhicitta and it helps. And then after a while, oh, my thoughts and feelings came back. Or sometimes you're dealing with difficult people, you do bodhicitta, you say, oh, it helped a little bit. And that's because you have to develop bodhicitta more strongly. So bodhicitta starts off as a kind of a mental exercise, an exercise of thought. And that's good because it starts to interrupt your negative karmas. Your karma is going, react, react, react, wait, maybe not react, maybe instead of close, maybe open. So it changes the karmas of the self. But eventually, when you it creates a different energy. It goes from being a thought process or thought practice to a heart practice. And not even a practice, it goes from a practice to a way of being in the heart that just is open. So we go from this mental view to a heart experience. And this is very important. Now there was a great teacher, I'll probably talk about him more, his name was Atisha. He really was an expert, an enlightened expert in Bodhisitta. He brought Bodhisitta practice to Tibet. He had a saying, he had this text, which is called The Bodhisattva's Garland of Jewels. In his text there is a teaching where he says, Put down doubt and indecision. Embrace the path with all of your heart. Shake off lethargy, laziness and dullness. Strive for the practice of dharma with enthusiasm and joy. So this is where we go from shaking off the dross of self, putting away doubt, laziness, and really opening our heart to the path and experiencing all of life as an experience of dharma, compassion, enlightenment. Years after the time of Atisha, there was Chakawa. So Chakawa was a monk who was a master bodhisitta, and he learned from Atisha's teachings, and he was the one who actually structured the seven points of mind training that we've learned. So he took from Atisha and he structured this. He created this enlightened structure we call the seven points of mind training, the Lojong. And he, during his time, was teaching many Buddhist monks, many advanced lay practitioners. And then he went down to a group of lepers in Tibet. And the lepers, he talked about Bodhisitta and they were all like, get out of here man, we're lepers. Our life is a totally different situation. And then he taught them Bodhisitta. And he said, Bodhisitta is not just something that we have in our heart, and this is where we come from. He's like, so you guys are thinking about all sorts of negative things and limitations, but if you come from a heart of compassion, it transforms your whole life. So the lepers started to meditate on compassion, and then they found some help. They would think beautiful thoughts and they would say, Wow, okay, there's some good things. But then they would go, Ow, my illness. And then they would come back into a very, very unhappy awareness. And then they'd say, Yeah, you know, this bodhicitta, it is good sometimes, but it comes back that we're very unhappy, we're very ill, and it doesn't work, it's not strong enough." And then Chakawa said, but it is! And he sat there with them. So he left the monastery and he sat there with the lepers, they all practiced, they all practiced. They went from just a mental practice of thinking about it, to having bodhicitta and compassion in their hearts. In having compassion in their hearts, compassion for all beings, they all were healed of their leprosy. And then they were like, Bodhicitta is not just a thought. Bodhicitta is something that is transformative and powerful. Now this is what we would call a Siddha, or a Siddhi, a power of compassion. It's something that, you know, if you're not Chakav or a teacher or somebody, you don't hear of these powerful transformations. But this is a miracle of compassion from Bodhicitta. So if you practice Bodhicitta and it can take away leprosy, it's important when you're practicing bodhicitta to be patient. You have to let the awareness of compassion settle in. The self wants to figure out everything So, compassion is a patient process. Compassion is being open. Not just trying to fix everything. Not trying to figure out everything. But it's really being open to all things. Being open to what you would call something bad, something that causes suffering, opening your heart to it. And then seeing that when you can open your heart to something that is suffering, something that you've run from or something that you've said causes you suffering, when you open your heart to it, then you're being patient. You're being open. You're seeing that that thing that causes suffering and difficulty actually doesn't. In the light of compassion, in the light of opening the heart, you're able to see that that thing has its place, the place in the universe. And it's a place beyond good and beyond bad. And we find that when we can have the patience to open our heart to be compassionate towards all things. So patience is a virtue. And virtuous conduct, sila, is the pathway of enlightenment. So there was a Buddhist monk who entered the Shaolin Temple when he was, I think, 10 years old. His name was Shaoyi. And Shaoyi was, let's say, not a talented Kung Fu practitioner. So we say he had two left feet. He was very uncoordinated. When he was learning the martial arts forms, all the little monks would line up and they would learn the different techniques. He would do them wrong and mess everything up. Everybody was like, this guy is just not getting it. the martial arts instructor, his name was Ni Ping, Ni Ping was watching Xiaoyi and he said, hmm, I have to maybe look at this guy and help him. Now, Xiaoyi, after a while, just wanted to quit because he wasn't good at it. He's like, I'm not good at this. People are laughing at me. I'm doing it completely wrong. I should just quit." And then Ni Ping said, be patient. He said, maybe there's another way for you to understand this. So Ni Ping was watching Xiaoyi when he was in calligraphy class, and he saw that he was really excellent at calligraphy. And then so he came over to him after and he said, he said, I want you to draw somebody doing martial arts. So he did a little drawing of a Buddhist monk doing some kung fu and it was a really good draw. Then he said, okay, so for the next martial arts classes, I want you to do a drawing of each movement of the form. So Xiaoyi sat there, watched the monks, and he did these very detailed, beautiful pictures of the different moves in the form. And then Yiping was able to sit there with him afterwards and talk to him about the pictures. And by making a picture, then he was able to make the movement. So he would look at his pictures, do the movement, and then when he was doing, and he developed himself that way, and then when he was out there with the other monks doing it, he had in his mind the picture. And then he was able to develop himself. So he had to have patience with himself. And he had to use different avenues, different resources to be able to develop his abilities. But then in the end, he became an expert in Shaolin Kung Fu. So 10 years later, there was an incursion by an enemy army into the Henan province. And this big army came across the Shaolin temple. And the general of the army wanted to sack the temple. So the general of the army sent some riders over to the temple and said, you monks must leave the temple. And then the abbot got up and said, no. And then the riders said, if you don't leave the temple, we're going to come in and attack and beat you up, kill you. And then the abbot said, we are Shaolin monks, we won't let you. And then they were all like, whoa, we have this great army, we have cavalry, we have bows and arrows. And then the abbot goes, get out of here. And so the general of the army, he gets a big, big, big, big, big group of cavalry together. And they have big horses that are armored, they've got spears, and they're all set to attack. to lead 99 monks to defend outside of the wall of the temple. And he says, okay. So, Ni Ping, he has his right hand monk, who's Xiao Yi. So now Xiao Yi is grown up and he's a martial and then they walk outside. There's 100 monks lined up. Now, they're facing an army of 10,000 and a line of cavalry of 1,000 that's positioned to charge in. And then, and then Ni Ping, or Xiaoyi says to Ni Ping, what are we going to do? And then he looks at him and he goes, patience. Now this is good because in Xuanzi's Art of War, he says the supreme art of war, the highest level of this art is to subdue the enemy without battle. So this is the goal of Niping. He says, we are going to win with patience. So he has all the monks standing there facing off against the cavalry and then all the monks go, he has them all go like this. And this is a sign of bowing before a fight or saying maybe this is a battle. Right now, I didn't go like this, I'm going like this. So they're just standing like that. And the general orders the cavalry to charge. And the cavalry goes charging in, charging in, charge, charge, charge. They get their spears ready, they're coming in, they're going to kabob some Buddhist monks, and then the monks are just standing there. And then when they're maybe, I don't know, ten yards, maybe eight yards from the Buddhist monks, the monks don't move, and then the cavalry just stops. And then they're like, what do we do? These guys are just standing here. And then the monks didn't do anything. They didn't react at all. And then they didn't get scared because of the charge of the cavalry. So the cavalry kind of just turns around and goes back. And the general's all, ha. But the soldiers wouldn't attack, There was a power in that in the in the patience of the monks They just had the patience now. They got a little closer. Maybe the monks would have done their kung fu, but there's There's there's such a power in that patience that it made the warriors Attacking them feel that if they had that kind of inner strength that if they attacked them, they would definitely lose. So patience is important. Now when you're practicing Bodhicitta, when you're working on the enlightened resources, working with a teacher, working on your spiritual practices, and working on your right livelihood, your career development, your financial tone-out. It's important that you have no excuses. Excuses are like elbows. Everyone has two. And excuses are reasons that people who have failures come up with to describe their failure. So if you set your mind, if you say, hmm, meditation is something I want to learn. If you set your mind on doing something that is the Dharma, then learn it. Don't give up. If bodhicitta is something that you want to learn, then practice it. Don't give up. If you want to develop a strong career, if you want to live with this excuse or am I going to overcome it? Because when you overcome it, then you go to a higher dharma. So, let's see, there was this writer, and He was like, I have writer's block. I have no creativity. And he's like, I can't think of anything useful. I'm just really blank. And then a friend of his says, oh, I have a way that's going to really get your creativity going.

1:03:04
And he's like, what is it?

1:03:06
And he said, I got you some free passes at my gym. So you can come, you can work out, it's free, and so, you know, enough free passes for a whole year. Like, so, you know, you're going to exercise, and, you know, you're going to get your mental juices going, you're going to come back and you're going to write. And then the writer's like, wow, thanks, this is going to be great, I'm excited about it. And then the next day, didn't go. And the next day didn't go. And a week goes by, didn't go. A month goes by, didn't go to the gym. And then he says, hey, but something is happening. Because he realized that while he's not going to the gym at all, he's creatively coming up with many excuses of why not to go to the gym. And then he ended up writing a book about excuses. You have to take responsibility when you want to do something that is positive, strong, something that develops you in a good way, then do it. Observe the excuses because they come up as obstacles, but then practice compassion and then go beyond them. And then you go to a higher dharma. So my teacher used to say, the hardest part about getting a black belt in martial arts is showing up to the dojo. Like if you don't get into the dojo, you don't learn anything, but if you get to the dojo consistently, you just will follow it and you'll just learn. So a lot of people are like, well, getting to the dojo, I'm tired after work and all these things, excuses. But if you just get there, even if you're tired, you just do it, then eventually you get your black belt. It's the same with learning technology. So if you have to learn technology and you have a set amount of time, you set every day, and if you take no excuse, you just say, all right, I'm going to sit down for this one hour a day and try. Eventually you'll become an excellent computer programmer. But if you say, well, no, I have this excuse, I have that excuse, I don't have the time. So you're like, oh yeah, I wanted to learn computer programming. Yeah, but, you know, I didn't have the time. I wanted to, you know, get a job in computers. Yeah, but I don't think I can do it. I wanted to, you know, succeed in this right livelihood practice. Yeah, but, I don't know, it's just, I don't have time, it takes so much energy. So no excuses, take your yeah but and sit it down in front of a computer, and that is something that gets you to learn. for what you see as a positive thing and engage in it. So the last thing I'd like to mention is, there's a Lojong teaching, don't rely on external conditions. Don't rely on external conditions. Because when you see something as hard, then you'll say, oh, no, no, no. Okay. If you see something as bad, you'll say, oh, no, no, no. Once you decide you want to follow the Dharma, whether it seems good or bad, you do it. It seems easy or hard, you do it. Whether you're not feeling well or feeling great, you do it. You're sleepy or awake, you do it. Whatever the conditions are, you commit yourself to practicing bodhicitta. You commit yourself to sustaining and developing yourself with the three Dharma resources, and then you're able to grow. Now I knew a student, my teacher, and she was working at Burger King, because she had to, right, just to get by. And she was also trying to finish school. She was getting a degree in architecture or something like that. So she was learning something to try to get ahead, but it was going really slow. She had to work, she had all these obligations and taking care of two kids, and she was a single mom, so she had a lot of obligations, a lot of time-consuming things that she had to do. But then she came to the study, and she said, I'm going to learn meditation and take the time to do it. I'm going to learn bodhicitta, and I'm going to do it. I'm going to learn computer programming, and I'm going to do it. So she took her time to meditate, to clear her mind, to be able to have the energy to do what she needed to do. She practiced mindfulness and bodhicitta to develop her personal power, her concentration, and overall dharma of her awareness field. And then she learned technology. And it wasn't easy for her. She didn't pick it up like that. It took a long time, but she learned it. And she went from working at Burger King, just barely getting by, to having a very, very strong career, well-paid, as a computer programmer. And this transformed her life. bodhicitta, and also learning right livelihood. So if something is powerful, then it doesn't matter whether it's hard or difficult. If something is hard, you don't say, Oh, it's hard, I've got to stop. You have to say, Oh, this is hard, how do I succeed in the Dharma here? How do I develop myself so that I can handle this hardship? How can I be strong to handle the hardship? We don't want hardships to just disappear, right? I mean, sure. But if there's a hardship there, if there's a difficulty there, then we have to become strong enough to overcome it. So, you know, so if you want to lose weight, eat a healthy diet, exercise. So many Americans who are always worried about, you know, their weight, and struggling with weight. It's like, no, no, if it's healthy for you, then do it. No excuses. Meditation, learn meditation. Meditate every day. It's so clarifying and empowering for the mind and the spirit. And so, don't be like, oh yeah, I'd like to learn meditation, but I meditate like once in a while. No, meditate every day. Practice Golisita every day. And develop your career every day. three Dharma resources. These are precious resources of the Bodhicitta teachings. These are resources that you should sustain, develop, be patient with, have no excuses to not do have a strong commitment to fostering these resources. So this is Lojong teaching, the esoteric teaching. What we're gonna do is sit up nice and straight, soft focus on the third eye,

1:12:02
then look up here towards me,

1:12:04
and we're going to sit for one song. Let's begin. Let's begin. the the

1:12:24
the the Thank you. the the the the the the the the the So the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Thank you. So we're going to take a 10 minute break and then we'll come back and I'm just going to

1:17:30
share some announcements about upcoming events. Hello! Okay, so next week we're going to be, I guess, a more expanded view. So we've been having, I guess, teachings on the guidelines more focused on your individual liberation from your obstacles, from that which is holding you back. And this is going to be a more expanded view, more focused on the liberation for others. So this is important because as a bodhisattva, you can't be in it for yourself, but you can be in it. And then maybe also next week, as part of the teaching, or probably the week after, I'm going to give a presentation about the upcoming quarter. So we're coming towards the equinox and this is the time where we're really going to be a very, very important time. A very, very strong time for practicing bodhicitta and especially for developing yourself in terms of career development. So for those of you who are learning tech, keep going. So I've had some people reach out to me and say, oh, I just can't do it. And I'm like, what? How many excuses have we got? One for each. So it's not that you can't, it's that you decide that you won't. So you have to have no excuses and you have to take the time that it takes, put in the effort that it takes, and she got her bachelor's degree as well. But she went from working at Burger King, really struggling, you know, just to pay the bills, time, obligation, children, all this stuff, right? And she just She's focused. She said, I have all these hardships that I want to achieve. I want to succeed in these things. So she did the work. She figured out how to make it, put it in her schedule and get it done. So everybody has their challenges. But if you want to have a higher level of power and experience in Dharma, the tonal of right livelihood, then you need to develop yourself. You need to focus and not give up. A lot of people are like, I want to give up. Don't give up. Look at the reasons why you want to give up and then focus and you can succeed without a doubt. Now before the solstice I would like to make sure that every student turns in their assignment on bodhicitta worked. Now, I've gotten many of the assignments, they're very beautiful, but there's still a lot of people who haven't sent their assignments in yet. I would appreciate if you can do your assignment. Now if you're like, Bodhicitta never worked, clear your mind of doubt and then practice. Practice earnestly. And if you sit down and you practice Bodhicitta and you really start to look into it, then you'll see places where it works. You'll see in sitting Bodhicitta practice, where Bodhicitta works. And you'll see when you are mindful during the day, maybe you have some difficulty with a person, and you can start to have compassion, taking and sending, taking loss and giving victory. And then you can see where bodhicitta works. So if you don't have a strong story of bodhicitta, sit down, practice bodhicitta. You could write your assignment based on an experience of sitting, meditation, and bodhicitta. So if you haven't had some amazing bodhicitta experience, practice bodhicitta and write about one of your experiences. And it doesn't have to be long. It could be a couple paragraphs. Just make sure that it's honest. Make sure that you're just very clearly expressing what is or was. So by the equinox, I'd like all of you to complete this assignment and send it to me. Good. All right. Let's see. So maybe next week and the following week I will give teachings and I will give information about the upcoming changes going into the winter solstice that are exciting. After the Equinox, after the Shasta power trip, then we're going to have some of the advanced students teaching on Saturday. They will be giving teachings on the Lojong teachings, the slogans. So there's 59 slogans, and the advanced students are going to give you their teachings, their commentary, their experiences on each of these teachings. Now I've taught about some of them, but I haven't covered all of them. So now we're going to cover them all completely. And it should be fun. We'll get different views, different experiences, different expressions of these teachings. So this is going to be really wonderful. Yeah, after the equinox, we'll be heading into a different teaching cycle that's going to be marvelous. So we're going to be completing the Bodhicitta teachings completely, up until the winter solstice. And then after the winter solstice, we're going into the next thing, which I'll tell you guys about later, which is very fun. Fun teachings. Fun teachings of Buddhism and enlightenment. Now, very important for the US students, and maybe some of the Hungarian students, and maybe some, any student, we're going to be making some yoga changes. So I've been looking at the yoga, how people are doing with it, how it's progressing, where we're going, and we're coming up with new yoga opportunities. So after the equinox we might have some cancellations of yoga projects and then we will have some new yoga projects. So this is very important. If your yoga project gets canceled, this is a place for you to practice selflessness. It's funny when someone practices yoga and they get very attached to their yoga. They're practicing selflessness and impeccability by doing all this work, working on it really hard. And then it gets taken away and some people go, Well, this is where you have to be selfless. Like Milarepa, right? Milarepa is building his tower and then he's like two-thirds of the way done and the Marpa comes over and says, no, no, no, no, take that tower down, build another one over here. This is part of our practice. This is what we do. We build things and yet we're unattached to what we're building. So our yogas are like those Tibetan mandalas. We will spend tons of energy, time, and focus impeccably making these mandalas, which is these colored sands, making this beautiful, intricate picture of dharma and balance. And then at the end of it, they just blow it away. They create this expression of complete selflessness and complete impeccability and the Dharma. And then at the end, they don't just leave it there and go, yes, it's there forever. They blow it away. So even with our successful yogas, like Zen Cloud and App Buddy, these were yogas that were successful businesses. They got acquired. They did very well. And our idea is not to hang on to those things. We build them and we let them go. So every yoga is not something you're going to hang on to forever. Every yoga that we have, we have to constantly be selfless in doing a perfect job and then developing it as best we can as successfully as we can and then the moment it goes poof It's gone whether it's an acquisition or whether we just say you know what let's drop it

1:29:47
so

1:29:49
We're gonna probably drop some yoga and we're and then we're gonna come up with some new yogas and If you're on a yoga team and the new yoga sounds fun to you, you can change. Oh no, what's going to happen to my yoga if I lose this yogi? Yay, something interesting. Change is good. Stirring the pot. All right, so we will prepare for that. But I'm just putting that out there. As we get closer to the solstice, or I mean the equinox, or maybe after the equinox, I will let you know what the new yoga projects are. And you might get assigned to them. Your yoga might go away. All sorts of fun things. And we're gonna do a little bit more integration, definitely with the Hungarian Sanda. And then if any of the other cities would like to work on some of these projects, we can work together on them.

1:31:04
It could be fun.

1:31:06
All right.

1:31:07
So I just wanted to give you a little bit of, you know, insight as to where we're going. A couple more teachings probably on the Bodhicitta from me and then a presentation on where we're going to be going from the equinox to the solstice, this is a very powerful solstice, important solstice. At the solstice, there's going to be a big new direction. New direction in teachings. And I think that you'll like it. But if you're Don't give up. Make this a very precise practice where you apply your discipline and selflessness. You've got to clean up your life and your mind so that you can have enough focus to succeed. Don't say, oh, it's too hard, I don't have time. Find the time. Clean up your mind. Meditate. You'll get more energy and clarity. And then you'll find the time. This is something important. And we'll have, coming up, some of the advanced teachers teaching, which I'm excited about. Oh my God, what are they going to teach? It should be very fun. Anyway, so, thank you all very much. what are they going to teach? It should be very fun. Anyway, so, thank you all very much. Be well, and I'll see you next week.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
