0:00:00
Hello everybody. Welcome to our meeting. It's so nice to speak with the entire worldwide Sangha. My name is Doma Jeet and I have been a student on this path for 28 years. I will be speaking today about enlightened teachers who work via transmission for a bit. After this, Lila will be speaking about some insights that she has about teachers in this topic. And then finally, Samvara will come and he will share some very, very special teachings. So that's our format for today. So for those of you who don't know me, I have been around this sangha for about seven years. Sambara and I started on this spiritual path in this school 28 years ago, 29 years ago, something like that. And we came in as the same wave of students, we're called SD2s, and we stayed with my teacher until he left the body. So we share the same teacher, his name is Rombryn Pushe. And so we've been friends since, and for the past seven years we've worked together. And we did a lot of work together in Hungary, teaching and things like that. So I would like to speak about enlightened teachers a bit because since my teacher left, I've had the great good fortune to spend time with other teachers as well. I've gotten blessings from other enlightened teachers and I've been very fortunate to have a chance to spend time with teachers who teach in different ways, who have totally different different modalities. Some were not enlightened, and most of them were enlightened, so I'm extremely fortunate. Some were very traditional from India. Others were very modern, and my teacher also was very modern. So I have kind of a spectrum, and so I would like to speak a little bit about work via transmission and enlightened teachers. See, enlightened teachers often do strange things. They do things that don't make sense to us. And sometimes we don't understand what's really going on. So for example, you may have heard of this teacher, Yogi Ram Surat Kumar. He is well known in India, but at the time when he was alive, in the beginning, he was treated like a bum. Because he would just go around completely blissed out in the streets, singing and dancing and just doing crazy things. And so they just thought he was just some crazy bum. But then they realized that there were all these miracles happening around him. And so they have a tradition of that in India of understanding that sometimes the enlightened one acts crazy. And so it's called crazy wisdom. And so they had an appreciation for that. And now he has the biggest ashram in Tiruvannamalai. Tiruvannamalai is, you know, the spiritual Mecca of India, one of them. So, that's one story of a crazy teacher. When we went to India, we met his main student, Divaki, and she told the story of how she would come around to be with him because she loved him so much and he kept kicking her out and telling her to go away and yelling at her. And this went on for years. And then finally she ended up being, you know, his main student who took care of him. So he was testing her love and he was also probably helping her to burn off a lot of karma so that she could get to the point of being with him all the time. So these are the kind of things teachers do. Sometimes they don't make sense. Another example is Padmasambhava. He is the being who brought Buddhism to Tibet. He is revered throughout the Buddhist world. But when he was in the body, which was just shortly after the Buddha was alive, he was not well respected. He was really crazy. He would do, yeah so my slideshow by the way, can you go up one slide? That's a picture of Yogi Ram Surat Kumar. That's who I was just talking about. He's the one who was dancing on the streets in Tiruvannamalai. And he has a huge heart, blesses people and takes away obstacles. So going to the next one. So this is Padmasambhava. And Padmasambhava did crazy things too. For example, there was a period of time where he was meditating in cemeteries, and he would just meditate on the corpses, on the bones, just meditate there. And he was known for being able to subdue a demon and no one knew what was going on. He had many crazy antics. In fact, he was so weird that they kicked him out of Tibet at one point. And he went off, I think this is about him, not about Lama Dukpa Khingle, who I'm gonna speak about next, but he was walking and there was a couple and they asked him to please bless their baby. And so he took the baby to give the baby a blessing and then threw the baby into the river and the baby of course died and the parents were absolutely horrified and and so then He explained to them that this baby was going to have an extremely difficult incarnation and He did indeed give the baby a blessing and the blessing was that by taking his life by him taking his life Him being a Buddha, he freed him from that negative karma and by him taking his life gave him the blessing to have a very high life next. So he did indeed bless this baby, he freed him from many difficulties. So you see, enlightened teachers do crazy things like that because they can see beyond time, the time that we are bound to, and they see into karmas. So I just mentioned Lama Dukpa Khenle, another teacher who is known for crazy wisdom. He is the patron saint of Bhutan. He is known for doing many, many crazy antics. He was drunk a lot, and he actually had sex with a lot of women. And he would subdue demons. There's a story of him where there was this demon that was... In Bhutan, the roads are very treacherous, but people can somehow get around without having accidents. But there was this area where there were a lot of accidents. People would have accidents on the mountain road. So they understand that the reason why they don't have accidents is because the Dakinis are protecting them. But in this area, they would always have trouble and they were not able to get through that area of the country. So there was this demon that was disturbing them there. And they asked him for help. And there's a story of him where he goes there to help and then he sees the demon and he's running after the demon and the demon is trying to run away from him and then he takes an arrow and he shoots the arrow into the demon and subdues him, her, sorry her, and then by his effect on her she ends up being a protector of that area. And I actually went to the temple, they built a temple there where he subdued this demon and you can see the arrow that he used shoot her. So because he had such crazy antics and he did have sex with a lot of women and he is the patron saint of Bhutan and in Bhutan there's this culture of understanding crazy wisdom. So one of the things that they do is they drop penises on their houses because that's a way of invoking his energy, his protection, and his immense power and what he did to the country because, you know, he really transformed Bhutan. Even though he was doing a lot of crazy antics, he caused a lot of beings to be freed. He freed them from their rigid ideas by sometimes making new jokes or being drunk or his whole thing was to free people from their rigid ideas of what spirituality is. There's other stories of him, like one time he was asked to bless a thangka. A woman asked him to bless a thangka, and he took the thangka and threw it on the ground, and he peed all over it, and she was horrified. And then she took the thangka, rolled it up, and took it home. And then when she got home, she unrolled the thangka from his feet. So he was really, you know, definitely one of the crazy wisdom teachers. My teacher Ram Rinpoche said that the subject of spiritual teachers is actually the most difficult subject on the spiritual path is the one that trips up most people because it's tricky because you love the teacher and the teacher is pushing your buttons often and you have reactions. But he's pushing your buttons or she because they're trying to free you from your rigid ideas and from your egoic patterns. So he said there are three categories of teachers.

0:10:22
There's harmful teachers.

0:10:24
Those are the ones who are teaching for themselves. You know, they usually want power, fame, or money, or something. They're not being completely selfless. And they're not enlightened, obviously, because they still have an ego wrapped up in their act of being a teacher. So there's lots of examples of this throughout the world. So we know that this exists, right? Then there is the beneficial but not enlightened teacher. Those are the ones who are really truly trying to do the best job they can. They're being impeccable about it and they're being as selfless as possible even though they're not enlightened. But they cannot teach enlightenment completely yet. They can only teach the concepts but they can't quite give the transmissions because they themselves are not enlightened. So it's kind of like having a coach or a mentor, you know, where they're further along than you or they've done it in the past, or they know how to teach it. So they can kind of help you along the way, but they can't, you know, do it themselves. It's kind of like having a coach who can't do that Olympic act anymore but can teach it. So that's the second category. Now the third category is beneficial and enlightened. And this is what's truly very, very special. This is a being who can do all the things they teach and more. This is a being who can transmit light and power and help all the time to his students or her students. They are completely selfless because they've gone beyond the ego and they are doing things

0:12:01
for your future even.

0:12:02
They are literally transmuting your karma and freeing you from all kinds of things. This is a bodhisattva, what they call in Buddhism a bodhisattva. And you're very very fortunate because this is the type of teacher that you have. It's like so by meeting Samvara and having an enlightened, a fully enlightened teacher who is transmitting and transmuting your karma, this is and is doing it out of selflessness. This is like winning the lottery. Because your path to Nirvana, you know, you just move from the Toyota to the Porsche. It's so much faster. You can make progress so much faster. It's just an incredible boon to meet an enlightened teacher. So I bet you have no idea what you received when you became a Sunflower student, he literally opens up his heart to them and they are placed inside this beautiful mandala that he's created, this structure in the inner worlds. They're literally placed inside his heart. And his heart is huge and compassionate. And everyone can fit in there. That's how big it is. So when he takes on a student, he's committed to help them to liberation. And you have free will, you know, it's up to you whether you stay around or not, it's up to you. But he is committed to your liberation. If you wanna go all the way, he will go all the way with you. When I was involved in some teachings in Hungary, I watched how he accepted students in Hungary. They would come up to him during these open meetings and request to be accepted as students. And I asked him one time, what happens when someone comes up to you? And he said, well, I accept them into my heart. I do the same thing for everyone, even if I just met them today. If they want to be my student, I open that up for them completely. So that's a, that's, you know, huge work and huge love to be able to accept everyone like that. So enlightened teachers in their work, they take this work of helping you become enlightened very, very seriously. And they can be fierce about it at times, because they have to get you out of your karmic patterns where you've gotten stuck. I don't know if you guys have heard, there's all kinds of Zen stories, you know, fierce Zen masters. One that is pretty intense that I've heard is a Zen master who was in the market, I think, with his student, and this monk was checking out all the women, and the Zen master struck him to get him out of that pattern. And this actually, I guess, injured the monk in some way, and he ended up being paralyzed. And of course this was a huge shock. This whole world just completely stopped. But when he went through this experience, he let go of all his desires, all his attachments, everything he had tied to the body and everything, and he became enlightened. And so you could say, oh my gosh, he's paralyzed, but he just gained a lottery because, you know, this is just one body, one life, but he is enlightened for all future lives. So this was a huge gift. His teacher helped him get out of something that was blocking his enlightenment. Now, luckily in this world, we don't have Zen masters who are fiercely, you know, striking students but there is no such thing here but there is definitely, you know, teaching through words and being fierce through words. Another enlightened teacher that we've known in my sangha among my peers is a teacher named Adi Da. He's also a fully enlightened teacher and he also does transmission work. He used to say that a teacher has both a kissing foot and a kicking foot. And with the kicking foot, they're kicking you because they are fierce with you because they have to get you out of your egoic patterns where you're stuck, but they completely love you. They completely love you. So their heart is completely open to you. So they also have a kissing foot by which they're just bathing you in love and ecstasy, but at the same time, he could be very fierce. His love was immense. His love was totally immense. Just to give you an idea of his commitment to us, I would like to play a song for you guys, and I would just like you to just sit back and listen to this song for just three minutes. I think it's three minutes long. The song he played to us to explain to us his commitment to us and to our liberation. So just sit back and listen to this song.

0:18:18
You with the sad eyes Don't be discouraged till I realize It's hard to take color in a world full of people You can't go sad on your own The dark clouds know inside you make you feel so small But I see your true colors shining through I see your true colors And that's why I love you So don't be afraid To let them show you True colors, true colors Are beautiful like a rainbow Show me a smile Don't be unhappy, can't remember when Now you laugh so you laugh If this world makes you crazy and you take it all you can then You call me up, because you know I'll be there And I'll see your true colors shining through I'll be your friend So let's show your true colors Your true colors shining through I'll see your true colors shining through I'll see your true colors shining through I'll see your true colors shining through I'll see your true colors shining through I'll see your true colors shining through I see your true colors and that's why I love you So don't be afraid to let it show Your true colors, your true colors and that's why I love you So don't be afraid to let them show Your true colors, your true colors Are beautiful like a rainbow So that's how my teacher was. He had immense love. And he saw this is what enlightened teachers do.

0:22:00
They see your true colors and they're committed to help you reach liberation. And they're always there for you. Can you go to the next slide please?

0:22:35
Go up.

0:22:38
One more.

0:22:39
Okay.

0:22:40
I guess just keep going down then I'll tell you when to stop. Sorry. I guess it got me arranged. Okay. Well, anyway, so the love towards us coming from Ram Rinpoche was really palpable. And it's a multi-life commitment, you know, that we have. And if we are upset in one lifetime, he forgives us and he's committed to take us all the way. Actually, in our sangha, there was one student who, we knew this, this is something that Ram Rinpoche told him, he poisoned Ram Rinpoche in a previous life, and yet there he was as So that's how much commitment Ramon Poché had for his students. He was very strange at times, though, because he was very fierce. And you know, he wore suits and drove beautiful cars and lived in nice houses. He would swear at times, and he could make lewd jokes. But this was all done so that we let go of our rigid ideas of what is spirituality so that we could be free to become liberated. He could care less about nice cars or anything like that because he was completely in light. He could be very fierce with us though, so sometimes he would yell at us. And you know, when a teacher is yelling, when an enlightened teacher is yelling, they're transmitting tremendous light. And in a way, you know, what they're saying

0:24:31
is causing you to react.

0:24:33
So these patterns are coming out and then they can just take those patterns away. So we noticed this with my teacher, Ram Ram Pesce, that when he would yell at us, then after the meeting, we would all of a sudden feel like, you know, 50 pounds was just removed from our shoulders and all of a sudden this pattern that we had, that we'd been struggling with was completely gone. So we came to the point where we loved it, actually, when he was fierce. And this was a lot of times. So I mean, during six years, most of the time he was yelling at us. And we came to actually understand that this was a very, very huge blessing when he was doing that. So that's the thing. The work of the wrathful teacher is where they really roll up their sleeves and they're really going after your egoic patterns to take them away. They're in this mode where it's almost like they're ripping it off of you so that you can be freed from that. And sometimes, you know, to get to that point, it requires some strange behavior perhaps. Maybe they'll act like they're upset with you about something, but it's actually completely

0:25:54
done out of love.

0:25:58
The antics of teachers. See, you have to understand that there's really nobody there anymore. They've completely merged with eternity. Enlightened teachers have merged with eternity. And there's really nobody there. So they've given themselves over to the teaching work, to eternity. They're being guided by eternity. And they can see into the future and into the past, as I was saying. So what may not make sense to you makes sense to them. So imagine like you're traveling down the river and you're in a boat, you can only see so far ahead. But the enlightened teacher is like an eagle flying up above, they can see way ahead. And so they are helping you to navigate the river in all kinds of ways so that you can get to your destination much faster. So it's really important that when you are experiencing the wrathful, crazy things that teachers might do, you know, you might hear Zimbara being intense or anything like that, you have to understand that it's blessing and don't get confused. So during these times, you know, there might be a reaction, but try to not react. Try to be as pure about it as possible and to remain in your heart and to remain in love. Because when you react, you can cut yourself off from the transmission that's coming from the teacher towards you all the time. So this requires a lot of heart and control and maturity. And I'm not saying I'm an expert at this. I've definitely had my share of reactions. But I know from being on this path for many years that I just had to, you know, use self control. And always, always, when something did not make sense at the time, then when some time passed and my consciousness expanded, and then what didn't make sense made complete sense. And now I was really super grateful that I received this blessing to help me get over this very deep samskara or pattern. So I've definitely gone through this many times. And so I just, I hope that, you know, you will be able to deal with it in the best way possible. Because when you react and you get mad, you cut yourself off from the transmission that's coming to you all the time. And, you know, in some ways you cut yourself off from it. So you're just wasting time. So try not to do that. So our teacher really worked tirelessly. He was always transmitting light to us and always teaching in the inner worlds, always, always. As in the song, it says, you call me up and I'll be there.

0:28:56
It was like that.

0:28:56
He was always there, always is still to this day, there for us. And he had students around a lot of times, but even when he didn't have students around in the physical, he was still working with all of us. And in addition to that he was working on the karmic patterns of the planet and just doing so many things. He was like Avalokiteshvara, he is like Avalokiteshvara, and this is a being who is the Bodhisattva of compassion. And he's depicted with many, many arms because he's working on so many levels and in so many different realms and just so compassionate working with so many beings. He is the one who will never stop reaching out a hand to help everyone who needs help. That's Avalokiteshvara. And just compassion and action all the time. My teacher was like this. Samvara is like this. This is, you know, a huge amount of work to make that kind of commitment to help beings. But some people have that, they are bodhisattvas. They're willing to do that for eons. Another story of a fierce, compassionate teacher is Yeshe Tsogyal. She was a student of Padmasambhava. She was with him when he was alive.

0:30:50
She was a very, very high being.

0:30:52
She was very fierce about her practice. At one point Padmasambhava sent her off to the mountains of the Himalayas to meditate for, I think it was three years, and she was by herself in a cave with no food. I mean, the Himalayan winters, she had to learn to do the tummo, which is a way to keep your body warm and to go beyond food and to gain these Siddha powers. That was her assignment.

0:31:23
And she did it.

0:31:24
Her skin turned red from getting these Siddha powers. That's why she's often depicted in red color. But she had a hard time in that cave by herself. And I think at one point she may have had a student there with her, but she was by herself during some of it. And at one point these bandits came and they raped her. But she could see beyond time and she saw that these bandits were actually her students. So while they were raping her, she transmitted so much light to them that they turned from bandits who raped women to being students on the spiritual path. And they became her students. So that's how powerful her transmission was and that's how fierce she was about her practice. I mean, imagine that level of just or to be gang raped and to see the light in that, it's beyond anything we can understand. So this transmission work, it takes a toll on the body

0:32:33
because it is tremendous work.

0:32:35
There's a lot of stress that teachers go through and they're in a human body and the human body has limitations. And the Yesh Tzogyal really pushed it to the limit. But all teachers, when they're in a human body, they're dealing with the human cell structure and the human nervous system, which is pretty frail. And so it's like they have this tremendous light, you know, their soul is just huge, humongous power in light. And then they have to kind of make it work and kind of put it inside this physical body because they want to be in the physical plane with the students to help them in the physical. And so this is like a really intense work for them to transmit as much light as possible, but then to make it work inside the limitations of the human body. There's lots of examples. I mentioned Adi Da. Adi Da went through this period where he was having real issues. His body couldn't take it because his students were reacting to him. And he actually, because we as a sangha, we had just experienced the death of our teacher, so some went to him and he was having a hard time because his students were reacting to him. So he actually went into an anxiety attack in this place called Lopez Island in Washington. I think this happened in 2000 or something like that and almost died. And it was, you know, the students of Ron Rimpochet who had just experienced the loss of their teacher, who had tremendous compassion about this, because they understood how painful it is to lose a teacher. So they somehow generated some energy that helped him And so he spent some time just around the students of Ram Rinpoche to get through that period. So, yeah, so teachers go through these things where they can just drop the body, you know, very quickly. It can just happen because the stress is so huge on the body. Samara talked about Shannon earlier this week for those of you guys who were not there. He's an enlightened teacher in our lineage. He also just left his students because it was too hard on him. Another enlightened teacher in our lineage is Kundalini. I spent years with her. She's wonderful. She also at one point had a couple hundred students and her body could not take it. It was too much. And so she closed her school down. And my teacher, you know, he taught for about 20 years. And then he was just the kind of being who would just push it all the way. And so he just pushed it to the point where he died. He left this world. Of course, he continues to teach us because his commitment is forever, but he's in another plane of existence because the body couldn't take it. So doing transmission work is really intense because you're completely open, the teacher is completely open, psychically and energetically to the students so that they can transmit light and understandings and teachings to each student all the time. So it's like they have a direct line to each student and they're like a giant super-cream computer, you know, that's like able to process everything that's going on with each student somehow in the inner worlds and be able to respond to each student with whatever issues they have to help them go faster on the path. So this is like this immense work, you know, that that is happening energetically. And they're literally responding on some level telepathically to each student. And I had this experience with some one time we were traveling to Hungary. Because he was teaching there. And we stopped off in New York because there was a healer there who's really good who I've worked with and I wanted him to benefit from the healing sessions. So we stopped off in New York and we were there for a couple days so that he had a couple healing sessions back to back. And so we were like, you know, spending time in Manhattan in the afternoons and then going to the healer in the evening to get healing session. And so in the afternoon, I think we went to a couple of restaurants and we were walking around and Sambara was like, he would be walking and then he would like hold his head and go, oh, and you know, this was like this during the entire two days because he was processing the pain of one student who had just gone through something incredibly traumatic and she was having difficulties. She was facing a major samskara and she was, you know, just really, really having a hard time. And during those two days as I was with him, I saw how completely he goes through it with the students, because he was just literally going through this trauma with her. Even though he was thousands of miles away, she was in California, he was in New York. Not only was he checking in with her every day via a Skype call, but he was with her all the time while we were just walking around in New York. His attention was on her to get her through this. So I saw what an immense work he's doing psychically, telepathically, energetically,

0:39:05
and how huge his compassion is.

0:39:07
And when, during the years he was teaching, and when he's teaching in Hungary and I got to go along with him, it was like kind of this game where I would come up with more and more complex schedules. And I saw how much he pushed himself to complete and utter exhaustion. Each schedule every time he went to Hungary would become more and more elaborate to the point that every minute of his time was completely maxed out to give maximum blessing to everyone. And it got to the point where, oh, okay, fine, I'll get to Hungary, I land on the plane and I teach that night. Yes, you can put in one more night of teaching, I'll make it happen. I mean, you know, someone just, incredible sensitivity, travels 24 hours, jet lag, everything, and then he's willing to sit there and clean up 75 people's pain right away. No rest, nothing. So, you know, this is like someone who's willing to push themselves to the brink of complete exhaustion for others. And that's how my teacher was too. He would say, you know, I just like fall into bed at night because I push myself. So throughout the year, Sambara's body has definitely taken a beating from all this work because transmission work is so intense. There was a period of time where he was passing out because students were thinking negative thoughts and it was too toxic for him. This was going on for years and then he figured out a way to solve that. And then most recently over the past couple of years, he was having heart issues. So one time, for example, he planned to come to Bodewoods where I'm at, and then I get the text, I can't come because I'm in the ER because he had heart issues. He's had that over the past, I think, year and a half, or two years, multiple times, and this has been an ongoing issue. And so that's just to give an idea of the kind of toll that it takes on the body. He literally is on the brink of dying, but he keeps going to teach. He keeps going on and on to teach others just because that's what It's out of compassion. When I came around the sangha, I think it was about seven years ago, I had this seeing that Sambhara would repeat the pattern of my teacher, which is to push yourself, to complete exhaustion for teaching, and then to push yourself to the point that you burn out and you leave the body. This was like, you know, this thing for me that I really wanted this to not happen for Sambara. I wanted him to stay because I know how hard it is when you lose your teacher. And so I've had many conversations about this with, you know, some of the other students in our sangha with Mandala, with Mudra, with Agni Kala, with Leela, we've had conversations, what to do, how can we help him, how can, what can we do, so he stays in the body. And especially in 2019-2020 period, I felt was the risk period because at that time, is the same time period in Sambar's life as my teacher's life when he left. So this was this high risk period of time in my mind. And when Sambar was going to the ER with his heart, I was just really, really worried, really worried. So I asked him many times to stop teaching and go away and just rest,

0:43:42
but he wouldn't do it. And I

0:43:45
please go away so that you can stay in the body because they also had the same worries. And, you know, especially around the solstice, the solstice, many students had dreams and seeings of Sombara dying. So to give you guys an idea with this talk of what teachers go through, hopefully I've conveyed it. Of course, I cannot even imagine what Sumbaran goes through because I myself am not enlightened and I cannot teach at the level that he teaches at. But I have some sense from spending time around him and from being around teachers and from the transmissions that I get from my teacher. And I wanted to just share this with you all. perhaps this will help you on your path to not react and to have more understanding about crazy wisdom teachings. And just to, you know, be able to always step back when you're reacting and just take a deep breath and try to deal with it as best as you can. It's not easy when someone's really pushing your patterns, I completely get it. So I just wanted to convey this. I hope that this will be helpful to you on your path. Thank you.

0:45:21
My name is Leila, probably you guys already know me. And today I would like to talk to you guys from my heart. And before I start my short talk I would like to invite you to this field with me to be in the heart and in order to do that you might physically physically feel your body is filling up with this beautiful love energy and you're breathing from your center from your heart center. So you just take a few deep breaths and just feel love and your heart energy. So you might be able to connect with the field I'm gonna transfer to you guys today.

0:46:20
Alright, very good.

0:46:27
So today I would like to add to this beautiful talk that DormaChip gave us a little bit I'm gonna add my own experiences and insights through this couple weeks after the solstice especially regarding to some virus transmissions he went through a spiritual death and how he got into a new level higher level of liberation so let me start with the solstice Kali this beautiful blue Tara energy was gracious enough they completely blessed us with this breathful energy which took us out of war day-to-day mentality thinking patterns and all which happened to us it was about to explode that's how I experienced it after the sourceless energy everything just got amplified and nothing worked how it worked before everything shifted into a new level into a more blissful explosion destruction level level that's how I can explain it the best. So yeah after this I recognized myself and also when I observed how Samwar went through this teaching cycle that it became extremely extremely hard and intense for him and actually for me as well. The intensity but one who is united in this world meaning liberated or enlightened, intensity to the world or people or students or relatives it's immense it's almost undescribable if you are not experiencing it yourself I did not know this myself but I was able to go through this cycle a connection and grow from it basically. I felt the only way I can deal with this to embrace this intensity and grow bigger than the intensity and the pain and the suffering and the crazy mind the crazy things in the world and it got so deep that eventually there was a dropping and a solution to it. So that's when the shift happened for me when I experienced a deep unity which never experienced before a deeper unity with Samvara's spirit, his being and the whole sangha through him and then it opened up to the whole universe, everything, whole unity exploded. which completely bursted my layers of my beings which were protecting me and I was completely one with everything. I also was able to understand Samvara, deep compassion, love and being able to go all the way for the students and loving all the students, all, everyone, same way. That was just something which opened up a greater unity to everything. So I went through the unity experience with the whole Sangha And the same commitment to share the light as best as I can with you all. So yeah, after this unity experience I went through ultra sensitivity and I felt heaviness and pain and especially that someone is going to die that's what I felt that it's coming so day to day I of course did all of my compassion and loving-kindness and bodhisattva practice and anything I could think of it could help. But I felt in the field also through me and also through his being that something is going to end, going to get to the end. And I experienced this many levels energetically, I felt energetic shifts like atom exploding, every atom in the universe exploding and then everything in the universe imploding like this fission and explosion it started to shift and merge this whole world we live in and I recognized everything in this world started to disappear including me and greater unity appeared from that field nothingness really, peaceful nothingness, when you can hold everything in your heart, in your being and completely be okay with everything, good and bad, highs and lows, So you might watch this transformation of Sambara as well in the last couple of weeks and so you might notice that he had some kind of hardships he expressed through his feying and you might ask he looked imbalanced but as Tolmachev described it this is not imbalance this is genuine true expression of his whole being wrathful and peaceful complete to be this honest and truthful to let the truth come to you this way that takes everything to let your true being come through you and express itself through you that takes everything and usually good teachers are like that they let the light express themselves through them completely Yeah, and I thought that this is a good sign because I felt like he's completely being himself now, completely give up everything and he might die physically but I felt this is the dharma, this is the perfect thing Of course I would have done everything to help him through to not die, what Dormajit mentioned but I knew that I did everything I could, I was capable of doing I had a deep letting go in my heart and nothing is going to be missed. Just sending my love and asking the Divine Mother if she would think to give him more years in this dream physical realm we are in. And I would be grateful but it's up to her to decide what is the next step for him.

0:57:14
So letting go,

0:57:15
that was a really beautiful experience through this. Also through this letting go, I recognized Kali, the divine goddess, appeared many many times and was trying to torturing me many many times with you know thoughts and you know some diversities some painful But eventually I opened my heart completely and I said, okay, do whatever you want, just do whatever you want. So I recognized Kali entering in me and, you know, clearing up everything which was a blocker for me to dissolve. And that's how I felt it happened through Samvara as well, the transmission Monday, this Monday. I just saw his, when he was teaching on Monday, I would say the divine goddess, the only one in existence, she decided to make the shift through him and I felt she to her, his being and transferring him to something else. Which I could describe first when you become liberated you usually have this upwards movement, you going up and you experience bliss and happiness and all sorts of magical things, unity and then there is another downward movement when you integrate it into this world which many many many teachers would never do it because it's hard, this is hard part to live in this world and teach through samsara, nirvana to recognize that is hard and to integrate it is immense and to embody it it takes everything and then I saw his process through the years he opened up to from this hug, hugging this whole Sangha, the students and the whole universe. So the horizontal expanded. But now this was even beyond that. I saw his being expanding in a circular manner which throughout every dimension, everything you can imagine. It was just purely God, God consciousness, very pure, the highest divine mother energy, which I call the heart of the universe or the womb of the universe, through this female divine emanation, this beautiful power. power and to see that it's happened through him and to feel this amazing peaceful, amazing love, bliss, energy emanating from his being is a gift for for all of us who are able to be connected with this amazing Buddha. I'm truly grateful for every moment, every moment. And being connected with Buddhas, it's so beneficial for the students that their progress could shift into a rapid enlightenment because the Buddha doesn't have to be there with you all the time and hold your hand physically and sit down with you and play jokes But whenever you are, as Dholmajit explained it with Brahma Rinpoche, wherever you are, the Buddha is now completely there for you. There are no need for lines or dream teachings or magic transmissions because he became all, all transmissions, all teachings. And even when you are getting physical teachings, like all of these great teachers kept giving them till the end of their lives, because that was their role, that was what they chose. It's amazing, but it's not needed. are in the world, in the universe is now always one with you, united with you and if you open your heart and put aside what you think you are, your ideas, your beliefs, you just strip up completely naked and open your heart in an innocent way and connect to this immensely soft and beautiful energy of the mother then you you will have everything you ever wanted you will feel what real divinity feels like this is very very unique and and special. So I just wanted you to guys have this insight and I wanted to share this with you and I would like to play one song which is also just sit back Stay in your heart and just breathe softly and let this beautiful Divine Mother energy to enter in your being, in your heart. So, let's play this song.

1:05:02
Could there be more to this life we call mine. Then a journey through space for a storyline. More to life than the body can can sense. Then the mind can conclude from experience. Does who we are begin with breath, And form or end with death Strip away these rules, these names And tell me what remains Who you really are Who you really are Measure success By the things we accrue Or the bonds that we form Or the deeds we do But these too shall pass As hard as we try To hold on to the form The form will die But inherent in this dancer form Is the chance to see what's yet unborn I'm born A choice to throw this chance away And be caught up in the play Of who we think we are Who we think we are This is your song? In a fortunate life comes a call to be free of bondage, this identity. To wake from the dream and finally realize of one's being before the body dies. So before the final scene is passed, see the scream on which it's cast. See what's seeing this me and you And then you will see Who you really are Who you really are Who you really are Who you really are Who you really are




Transcribed with Cockatoo
