0:00:00
Hello.

0:00:01
All right, we're going to begin with meditation. We're going to sit for three songs.

0:00:10
All right, let's begin. the the the the the the the the the the the So, so the the the the the the so You you the the the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so the the the so So so you. the the the the the the the so so the the the It's just a matter of time Before I'm gone Baby, I'm not gonna cry I'm gonna miss you the the the so you Alright, very nice. So, as I've been saying for a while now, since the pandemic kicked in, there's a lot of Maya. There's greater darkness and my advanced students have had fractured awareness.

0:14:02
Confusion. And I've been talking, I mean all my students have, but it's embarrassing that my advanced students have. I've been talking about this for a long time. I know that you're listening somewhat, but we have to pull it together because going further with a fractured attention, with doubt, or a bad feeling in your heart, just doesn't make any sense for enlightenment. So, if you have confusion and darkness, doubt, and problems in your head, Maybe don't be here anymore and go and follow those problems, those dissatisfactions. Work them out on your own. But I've been talking about this for a long time, and if you're so confused and you can't listen to the teachings and you're an advanced student, then I don't know what to say. You're not practicing for enlightenment, you're practicing for self. So the teachings are the teachings. I give them all the time and I'm pointing out the problem and then you point back at me as a problem. I'm like, well, then go figure it out. So I noticed something with Rama's students. the funga, they all ran around going crazy, like a herd of cats. Everyone out for their own enlightenment, for their own can of sardines, and not many finding it. And I was on the ABS call today. This is ST1s and 2s mostly. Some ST3s. And I was listening to the stories. So on each of their calls they have stories of trauma. And, um, it was hugely embarrassing to listen to them. They had a spark of light. They all have recognition of the enlightenment and power of Rama. And they have all let themselves fall into utter, complete self-confusion. And it's like, they're like, oh my gosh, it was so amazing. And then there's a light. It was great. And the power. And they can tell you a true story of power that changed their lives in very positive ways. And then the other part of the question is, well, where did they give that up? A spark brought them into a place of light. And then by listening to them, there was these stories that just went down from there. That doesn't lead to enlightenment. Just because you come across a Buddha or a Jesus doesn't mean that all of a sudden everything is going to be the fantastic, wonderful thing you've ever wished. You have to, from that point, start to practice. And the vast majority of direct disciples of Rama stopped practicing. They don't meditate. They're definitely done through the advanced teachings. They gave up. They got confused. They went into the Maya, which happens, and that's okay. That's a normal process, but it's not a process for enlightenment. The moments that are there, like, so while I was studying with Rama, things were rapid, powerful, transformative. I grew, I did things I would never have done before. I got out of those akarmas. And then the moment that the enlightened person's not there, they go into concrete. Or as Ishwara would say, Ishwara's an enlightened student who lives on the big island, actually. He says, almost all of Rama's students are in the freezer.

0:18:51
They're in the freezer.

0:18:52
Not that they're not good, not like they're not a tasty chicken. It's just that a frozen tasty chicken needs to go through a defrosting and re-warming process. But at one point, we were a nice roasted chicken, ready to eat. So the pathway to enlightenment has a subtlety and when you become an advanced student, well, you can run into a lot of egotistical problems, your ego can kick in and say I'm advanced and therefore I am everything for me me me me me me and then you could also say oh I'm advanced and now this is it it's not enough and both of those things pull you off being advanced the Being advanced, the advanced study, is the most humbling and the most still and the most quiet thing and the most profound thing in that stillness. But if you notice the chatter of your mind saying, I'm going to do this, me, me, me, me, me, think, think, think, think, think, think, you're going off, going off. And the maya is very heavy, so it's easy to go off. But if you're like, doubt, doubt, doubt, doubt, doubt, and then you're going off in the other direction. Just be. This is the advanced teachings. It brings you to a place of just being. Yeah, there's meditation to do, yeah, there's reflections, and it's facing your hardest sapskaras and all that stuff, right? And what happens if you want enlightenment is you let go. You let go of desire, idea, chasing. You let go of attachment. You let go of doubt. what is there beyond those clouds, beyond those winds that blow you upside down, and you're just there, being. So advanced students, don't be confused, many of you are, and I've been telling you again and again and again. And I've been bringing about a profound teaching that will be wonderful for new students, the Buddha Dojo. It will be the gateway to thousands of new students. It will also be the maturation of intermediate students to advanced students to the photon level. It will be the maturation to the advanced level. And it will be a tremendous power for advanced students. But it means that you have to be part of a team. You have to be part of the pyramid. I keep talking about this golden pyramid. That's the Buddha Dojo. It's a dojo, karate dojo, inside a pyramid. I mean, they don't even have that in Vegas. So, it's a really powerful thing. And the second attention, the golden pyramid, is a second attention structure, an amazing architected, structured, yogic vehicle. And well done. And it is a vehicle that, if you participate in it, advanced students get stronger. It's like a dojo. common ways of development. So it's important at this time to have a realization and not get confused. The dojo is a team, it's a pyramid. You're a brick in the pyramid. You're part of a big thing, a big powerful thing. If you're a brick on your own, then you're a brick on your own. Your team is called I, the I team. It's not an iPhone. It's not an iWatch. It's a you by yourself team, which, you know, is the perfect egotistical path. So, recognize that in your thoughts, in your, I need this, I want to do that. And this school for advanced students is a school for team members, people who want to be a part of the Buddha Dojo. If you don't, you've learned enough. You've gotten what you've gotten, and you can go your way. So, enjoy. You know, you've got the teachings for enlightenment advanced students, and so you must be going in smarty very commonly now, right? Very high states of mind by now, at this time. So, you must be doing really well, even though I've been telling you, there's a lot of maya, you're probably not doing so good. There's a way to fix it, and the way to fix it is greater unity. So I gave a teaching on unity and diversity. It is the most important for advanced students. You have to search your heart. This is an aid. It doesn't mean that you can't become enlightened. If you just say, oh, I'm bothered, I want to go do something else. You can become enlightened. Just like so many of Rama's direct disciples, ST1s for 30 years, ST2s for I don't know how long, 20 years, now I guess less, 12 years, got the advanced teachings, sat with a master who was multiple times more powerful and insightful than me. And multiple times, like a lot of more multiples. And yet, wow, they're off doing whatever they want. It was really like sad. It's when STG was giving his beautiful, powerful, like he's all over the place with his attention, but he came wishy-washy from this place to that place and came to be a disciple, a direct student of a great Buddha. And his life changed, and I knew him, and I saw him go through so many amazing changes. And then to hear him on this call, I'm like, oh my gosh. Personal power level, not higher, way lower. To now, you know, we were all trained in how to talk, you know, how to give a teaching. And then he's all, oh wait, hold on a second. What, in the middle of my teaching? Oh, my wife's asking me something about some chicken soup she's making. I gotta help her with the ingredients. No, I'll be right back.

0:27:15
Just hang on.

0:27:16
It's really funny. I'm like, okay, well, my students are doing much better than that.

0:27:21
I'm not gonna be so critical.

0:27:22
Now, I think you guys do an amazing job. You know, even if you do a crappy job, you do an amazing job. So, when we've done the Lojong teachings, and I've given some corrections, and I've had the Teaching Council give corrections or feedback, and all of these teachings, even the worst ones, where you're nervous, where you forget to say what you're going to say, you got mixed up in the middle of what you were talking about. What am I talking about? And then you you brought through so much tone out and so much light. It's really remarkable. It's it's on par with great teachers. I mean, you can get more polished. But I have to say that my advanced students, it's on par with great teachers. I'm a great teacher. Turi is a great teacher. Shiva is a great teacher. Agni Kala is a great teacher. Kali is a great teacher. These direct students of Brahma who are powerful teachers. They've got power. You have power. And you have a clean power. And you've got technique. You've got good tonal. The big thing that the ST1s and ST2s gave up on is the power of their tonal. That's what happens once you start to go the way of the self. You say, when I was in the dojo, my sensei made me do these exercises. But when I opened my own dojo, I didn't like those ones, so I started doing my own exercises. No more punching, we're going to do some chicken flaps. Because all I do is, ain't so hard for you. It comes natural to me. That's my natural expression. That's how my spirit expresses itself. And then you walk into the octagon and elbow smash and Yeah, so when you start to go into these wonderful imaginations of your way and yourself and a desire for, you know, this teacher, that teacher, these things, that thing, you're

0:30:12
off.

0:30:13
I mean, maybe you go do that and explore that, but you're off from like a strong path, a legit dojo. And so the thing is that you guys go off. And you're never going to become enlightened if you're going off like this. It's not going to happen. Confused, like, oh, but I read this other thing from this other teacher. Oh, you know, I'm confused about what this other teacher said. I'm like, you know, if you're in my karate dojo and I'm teaching you karate and you're all, well, this Aikido guy who's a fifth degree black fellow told me that the punch should go like this, you know, or something. I'll be like, okay, well, you can go study with that guy and see if it works out. to this point and I'm telling you you're at that end game to break through to do the job to get that black belt, go ahead at Aikido or Judo or something like that or different sensei. Sure, if that's what you got to do, you're gonna have to work that out. But if you want to be a part of this group, this is a team and we're doing one thing and it is called the Golden Pyramid, the Buddha Dojo. One structure. I'm creating with you a united structure for teaching. And so many of you are so confused. You're like looking at other teachers. I'm like, great. It's bad when one becomes two. And don't you recognize that where you hear some different idea, some different concept, and then your power goes down? It's ridiculous. It's like being in a karate dojo and saying, well, I went to this judo thing. I'm really attracted to it, so I'm going to try a Judo technique in this dojo. I'm going to try a Naikido technique in this dojo." I'm like, uh, are you confused? Like, this is a place to create a certain level of development. If you start getting confused, you're going to start mixing in all sorts of different things and ideas. And guaranteed, they might be from people who were direct students of Rama. They might be enlightened. And I have no problem with them. They're great. But if it confuses you, if you start to try to do a Judo throw while I'm teaching kicks, it's not going to help you get your black belt. Then even though they were enlightened from the same teacher and had some super amazing power. You got confused. You can't do the kick because you can't learn the kick while you're trying to do a throw. And you don't know the difference. All you see is the light. You're an early person. The light and the structures that the use are different techniques like in a martial arts school. So I'm teaching a way. If you're confused about my way and you're so into a judo throw that you don't want to learn my kick, I'm teaching a kick at this time. I know the judo throw as well, but I'm teaching a kick at this time. Well, the judo throw. I'm like, it's time for me to leave. If that's what you're stuck on, you can't work with me. If you don't respect me, if you don't want to work on the things I'm working on, then you can't be part of my dojo. And that's your choice in all of the teachings of confusion and maya and diversity to follow that path. like a lone cat, you'll be like,

0:34:25
I totally know what I'm doing.

0:34:27
And you'll run off and do whatever you do. And there are, you know, you've got the teachings for enlightenment, but you gotta look at most ST1s and ST2s who got those teachings from a much higher teacher. Doesn't work out so well for an individual following their own thing. With no check, no accountability, no one to say, oh, I can see what's going on with you. Because no one can. And if it's just your opinion, you've fallen into ego. So, advanced students, get it together. Like, chill out in your, like there's this egotistical fervor. I must do this thing. And then it doesn't happen. And then you start to go, well, if it's not happening, I'm out of balance. And I'm gonna start looking for other places. I'm telling you the truth. Just do the practice. Just be. The practice is a weird, demanding practice. Just do it with all your heart, whether it's good or bad. In the advanced teachings, it's the same as in the beginning teachings. Don't doubt, question, or judge your practice. Never say, I meditated and I got this as a result. Because if you ever get a result, that's just nothing. That's an illusion. If you're seeking the fruits of your action, it's like, my meditation is supposed to make me happy. I'm pretty sure in enlightenment, your concept of happiness ain't going to happen. I got to say, Leela, when she was like really going through the end of the enlightenment cycle, she was like, if you told me that this is what enlightenment is, she's like, I would not sign up. And I was all like, yeah, I know, it's good, it's good. It's the ultimate thing, advanced students. It's the ultimate thing. So Buddha sat under the Bodhi tree. They were shooting arrows at him. They were drawing his attention with the dancing ladies. The armies were coming. There was thunder and dirt. And then he got through it. He was not drawn off in desire. He was not afraid of the thunder, I mean the intenseness of everything. And at the moment of liberation, every dimension, every world, everything reacts upon your mind. Everything. Everything you can imagine and you can't imagine. And it's a tremendous intensity. And if you are like, well, I'm kind of like a figure fish.

0:38:15
Or I don't like that.

0:38:17
You're gonna go those directions.

0:38:19
But if you can just sit there and be. The essence of the advanced teachings is to let go. To just be. And then all of those things act. They are there. Those are real. And they're not real. like a shotgun blast. It's intense. And if you can be, you have this inner equanimity from the essence of the advanced teachings. All these things come and go. They don't even hurt you. They don't draw your mind off one way or another. So, don't give up. If it's been hard, it's a hard time. If we're in Shing-ra-la, and we had Buddhas fanning us as we sat on pillows, and each Buddha telling us, you know, here's a different way for you to meditate. It might help. Here, drink this drink and you'll go into Samadhi. Here, let me bless you with the best blessing. I'm Avalokiteshvara, so I'm just going to enlighten you, just because I have a lot of compassion. You know, we're not there, we're here. So this is our story of enlightenment and this is the place where we have to work from, where we have to learn our lesson. But we have to learn our lesson. And for those of you in this yuga, in this situation, in this samskara that we're in, and that I'm here as living proof. Because I've been through some lokas and some universal cycles, and in this Kali Yuga, this difficult time, a time of hardship and darkness, heaviness, physicality, I became liberated here because it's harder. I remember the last round didn't do so well and then it took me so many years and incarnations to get to where it's hard again. This is why we do Tantra. Tantra isn't we get enlightened at the easy time. It's where we say, it's so hard that I have to be great. You're tantrics if you're in this school. If you're an advanced student, you're a tantric. That means that you've gone through a golden age where it was easy and guess what you did? You sat back and chilled out and didn't push it. And yet the gods were there, the enlightened beings were there. There was a lot of dharma where you were like, the same way you're like, while you're looking at TikTok on your phone. Or whatever you guys do on your phone. It's the same. You were like Buddha on the phone. Buddha's cool guy, just like this funny TikTok. Can't say that this TikTok's bad, it's funny. Just like when Buddha would show up in the golden age and you're like, cool, Buddha is cool. Oh yeah, sure, I'll sit with him. Yeah, that was great. Thanks, Buddha. Buddha goes away. And you're like, I'm not going to follow him, I'm going to do whatever I want. Until it gets hard. And if it ain't hard enough, then you're going to figure it out. If it's not hard enough, you're going to go through a cycle like many ST1s and ST2s. Really high beings. Super powerful, high beings. I'm like, are you guys serious? They don't want enlightenment at this lifetime. But they have this great teacher, an amazing teacher who's a master of the bardos, who's lined them up to, because of all the hard work that they did, the yoga that they did in the 10 or 20 years they studied with this great teacher, where they transformed and all sorts of stuff, even though they went back to self, because they didn't want enlightenment, their teacher's going to draw them to a new place, because he's a great teacher. Now, I'm kind of fortunate to be awake, awake into his teachings. Whenever I talk to ST1s, ST2s, in general, they're not awake into his teachings.

0:43:37
They knew.

0:43:38
He was thunderous, light, he walked on water, he healed people of cancer. He did. They all know it. They have all stories of it. They saw it with their own eyes for 20 years. And then he goes away and they're all, what can we do? You can follow his teachings and you can become enlightened yourself.

0:44:02
But he was enlightened.

0:44:04
It's cute. So, enlightenment is big fuzzy blonde hair guy. It's so cute. They just figured that out. Because for a long time everyone thought, oh, enlightenment is bald-headed Buddha guy. But, nope. They're convinced Because he was great. He walked on water He walked on air He did magical things. He healed all of the whole time that he was alive. He healed all the students Someone got a cancer You know someone got shot someone got shot they're gonna die. So, you know, these things were a great impact on them. Just like your life, advanced students, the study has had a profound impact on your life. However, if you give up on everything that's been powerful and you start to go a new way, a new idea, because I should be, because I, I, I, or I doubt, you're lost in the Maya of the time. You're lost in the confusion of the time. It's like if we were sitting here when World War II broke out in the country. Hungry! I would say let's get it together people. Something bad is happening and if everybody started running off, going into war, you know, or whatever they do because of their all sorts of reasons, then that's going to be because of the crazy maya and the crazy karmas of the time it's going to break you apart. But if I can gather you together, we can get through it. Yeah, even that, or even anything. So now all we have is a pandemic, stay at home order and whatever. Advanced students, if you're confused, you're weird, like you don't get it, you don't remember the teachings that helped you, so you want to give up on them. I know there's this whole other idea, this new idea, the beginning and intermediate teachings, don't count anymore. And I'm like, okay, great. So if that's true, show me that. Prove it to me. We can sit in front of each other. Tell me your experience. Show me you can go into Samadhi. Like, do it, for real.

0:47:17
I can do it.

0:47:20
Show me that you can do it, if that's the truth. Like, you would never do that in a karate dojo. You're like, I've got my brown belt, but I learned judo throws, so I'm gonna go to judo school. Sensei says, well, show me that it works. Here, do a judo throw on me. And then you'll... You're ridiculous. You're outside of the balance. You think you're better? You're ridiculous. That's baby school. That's, oh, of my own dojo called My Way Do. I just have to keep saying the same things to you.

0:48:02
You guys are ridiculous in your little thoughts,

0:48:05
but I have a better way.

0:48:06
I mean, no, I mean, I understand that you might be feeling in your meditation a higher way, a different expression. Like I did Mystic Scuba, which built off of a very deep just spiritual experience. Our turnout was just getting our scuba open water card, that was the turnout. Everything else was second attention teachings. accessible in a different way that helps a lot of people in a lot of ways and it's exciting so I built off of it Turia has built off of Teachings and they all and then they're awesome like Turia's Taking all of these teachings She's brought them into her heart and then what she expresses in her mystical practices in her book They are solid solid so they are solid, solid. So you know, you might go to a karate dojo where the sensei is teaching only kata. And you're like, wow, that's one thing. Or a dojo where they teach all kumite, all fighting. It's the same dojo. They've just developed developed what the dojos are interested in. So this is a very important aspect of the study. If you're good in your system, you're strong, and you yet want to help someone else or do something different, there's a structure for helping. You see it in a lot. It is, and in martial arts, there's a main dojo. And then you say, I want to open my own dojo. And you follow the teachings and the structures, and you can. So let's say SKA, Shotokan Karate. So Oshima, great master, a direct student of the founder of Shotokan. He has this beautiful dojo in Santa Barbara. And he doesn't have to have all of the students there. Not at all. He has some cool students there, but he has some amazing students throughout the country. He's got an amazing student in the Bronx, New York, for example. That's who I studied with. And so he created a dojo that was based on a master's And he was able to then create such a strong, powerful school that there are hundreds of dojos in America, right? So some power. Because if he didn't build his school properly, he couldn't develop people to be strong enough to go out on their own and teach and be powerful and have new ways to unfold the Dharma. But there's a structure because there were some students of you know, place, cut them out, cut off their connection to Oshima and create Joe's Karate School in Encinita. And Joe's Karate School in Encinita is it's kind of like if you had a little phone that you started making, you're like, hey, I'm gonna sell it. And there's this other thing that we all came from called the iPhone. And it's like, my phone's just like the iPhone, but just with a little bit more personality. My own thing. I added a little bit of Shaolin and Judo. No one wants to buy your phone. This is the thing, no one wants to buy your phone. Everybody wants an iPhone. There's a bigger power in a bigger community. iPhones are sold everywhere. And SKA, SugarCon schools, are in a hundred places or more in If there was that one guy who quit and went to Reseda, went to Canoga Park, and decided, I'm gonna open my own dojo. No one's looking for your iPhone. I mean, it's not an iPhone. You've changed it into a your phone. Right, everyone's looking for an iPhone. Why is SKA so popular, so powerful. So, a great thing that my teacher taught, in an organization, very common thing, the power and light and consciousness of the person at the top comes down through the whole organization. It's seen in martial arts. So SKA, Oshima, this great, very, very, very noble martial artist. The highest ideals of Buddhism and practice and discipline and care, very just the highest kind of samurai spirit. That spirit flows down across all his dojo and all the dojos of the nation. Hundreds of dojos where there's amazing teachers. So that's what we're doing here. We have to construct the Buddha dojo. This is the form that we have to take. We have to take this form. However, you advanced students are senseis, are masters, are great students. That's what I'm telling you. I look at your teachings, they're bright, they're strong. You've got the toenail and you've got the connection to light. So if you want to do your own thing sometime. You want to go off to Phoenix, to Moscow, or something like Raja mentioned, he wants to teach in Moscow, he wants to help them. And I'm like, wow, why? Okay, cool, but he wants to. Then when he goes to Moscow, he doesn't go as Raja, he goes as Buddha Dojo. Shaolin Temple created such a strong power in a very similar fashion. If this was Shaolin and I had the same level of power of Shaolin teacher. And guess what he can do? He can do the real thing. He can bring authentic Shaolin to that group of people who are interested. That's what we do. And guess what? He wouldn't walk into that place and say, yeah, I used to be Shaolin, but now I'm going to do free style. Check it out, everybody. Right? No, he wouldn't do that. He'd walk in and say, I'm Shaolin, because I came from Bodhidharma. That's where this came from. Right? So, if you want to deny your lineage and make up your own dojo, you can do it.

0:56:56
It would just be

0:56:58
frivolous, powerless, full of self. So, but some of you might need to do that now. I've seen a couple of my students who have had to make up their own way and muzzle talk and they're fully empowered. So maybe that's what they have to go through. So if you're really into doing something weird, maybe that's what you have to go through. That would be okay with me. So I've created this free class. This free class is not just for stupid people. If any of you advance students or are Baudoin students, if you think, I wanna do my own thing. If you wanna do your own thing, that's what you're drawn to, I would say that a very small percentage of you, it's great, and that's what you should do. And a bunch of you should either check yourself, stop doubt, stop ideas of self, and like get back on line. But if that's what's gonna happen with you, I would say go and do whatever you want. But if you can have an open heart enough to be free and come to a free class, which is just going to be me, you know, like most months coming in and doing a teaching, if I don't create in your head a problem and you have to go do your own thing, then you should do that. We come into delicate matters in the advanced teachings. If you're smart, you do the best thing. If you can't, then you have to do something else. But if you can open your heart to having a connection, you can do whatever you want, see all the teachers that you want. And if that little connection where you're all, well I can see one of Sambara's teachings per month. If you can do that without having a reaction or a problem, you just need more, you just need to explore, then good. Then I would say do that. So even Bodons and advanced students, if you're confused. And go to the free class. It's free. You don't have to pay any more money and you can do whatever you want. You're not under a yield up or nothing. You can do whatever you want. And then see how it pans out for you. And hopefully you see how it pans out for you. But if there's a connection to me, I still can give you a lot of assistance. And even if you say, screw you, Sephora, I'm going to give you two fingers, I'll still give you a lot of assistance. It's invisible assistance.

1:00:21
Yeah.

1:00:25
But, you know, I have no illusions anymore. Watching the advanced students act so crazy, I'm like, whoa. You know, I remember when I gave the first advanced empowerment in the Anza Borrego, and this was actually after Lila was liberated a few months before or something. I was like, I'm so happy to do this. This is the best moment of my life. Cause I'm like, I'm going to open up enlightenment to my favorite people and who deserve it and who are ready for this empowerment. And then now when I look at you guys, I'm like, oh my God, who are you people? And you guys are like, who are you? My mom, yeah.

1:01:14
That's where you're at.

1:01:15
So I would love for you to wake up and also chill out and like, just stop all the ideas and all the... Some of you have some very negative thoughts or doubts.

1:01:43
Go away.

1:01:44
I'm tired of it. If you're not tired of it, take your negative thoughts and doubts and go away. You're not going to be a part of this Buddha dojo if you have negativity. Go and break it out on yourself. You know, go and figure your thing out. If some more is bad, I got to go away, then please go and figure out what is good and what's bad. I would like to hang out with people who see a good thing here, right? And who like it?

1:02:28
And who wanna work hard?

1:02:29
If you're an advanced student and you don't wanna work hard, and you are mad or confused, then you haven't been following my teachings. And I think maybe you need to leave and go do whatever you want to figure out. Everything in your heart will go about this idea or that book or that teacher.

1:02:54
Enjoy it.

1:02:56
Go figure it out.

1:02:57
See if it helps.

1:02:59
Also, that would be great.

1:03:01
Because I don't want confusion. I don't want a hard time anymore. I can do some amazing things for advanced students. I haven't even started, I guess I started. I got a lot more I can do. I can do a lot. I'm like very, very, very strong in what I can do. But when I see so much like confusion and reaction in advanced students, it makes me not want to do it. For anyone, I'm all, eww. There was this one time, Buddha came to a group of 10,000 students. He sat in front of them and so many of the students are like, they're growing and learning, becoming stream-winners and non-returners, they want enlightenment. And Buddha sits there and says, no, there's one here in 10,000, one person who's so negative, I'm not going to say a word of the Dharma. And then Sarkutra goes around looking at everybody, reading their minds, and he finds this one pissed off hunk who's doubtful, angry, fearful, crazy, left, right, center, but mostly right. And Sariputra, at this time was a very old monk, grabbed that guy by his nose. Grabbed him by his nose and pulled him the hell out of there. He said, what the... He grabbed him in his nose and pulled him out. He pulled him out of the assembly. And then Buddha started teaching this beautiful teaching of enlightenment. Because one bad brick in a pyramid destroys the pyramid. I want you advanced students to ask yourself, are you a bad brick? And if you are, there's many doors. There's many ways out. I see a window. You can jump that way. I mean, I love you to the end. And the end might be now. If you're mad, if you don't like it, give it up the Buddhist teachings for everybody else. I'm giving you guys a hard time. I know there are little thoughts in your mind but they make little movements. No one's so evil. Otherwise I would invite them to the Dharma Dilla in the backyard and bring my boxing gloves. Just kidding, but seriously, it doesn't work. And it's time to leave if you can't fix it. You might be so confused, go away. Go and chase your ideas. Chase them down. It's a good idea, you're so interested in it, chase it down. Not my dojo. My dojo, follow my teachings. We go like this, go to a dojo.

1:06:45
Go to a dojo if you haven't been.

1:06:47
Wait, actually, this is after the pandemic is over. Get a vaccine, wait about a year, everything looks good, then go to a dojo. But advanced students, you've been to dojos. That's why I'm giving you this idea. Come on, that's what you think. You're gone and you're lost. If you're off, you're off. If you're off, you're off. And I'm saying now, make a choice. You're either part of the team or you're the part of your team. And there's no you're in team. Make your own dojo in your head

1:07:29
and see what happens.

1:07:31
But if you're here and you're going to stay a part of the team, I have to say to the advanced students, you're being a little bit confused. Now, the advanced teachings, as they were given, three years you can be enlightened, five years if it takes a little bit longer, five years. You guys are breaking past the three-year stage because of confusion and illusion. And I've been talking to you about it. Not all of you. Some of you are right on mark. There will be enlightened people soon. A lot of you, most of you, this crazy pandemic and the world and politics and all, the politics has been a big hindrance. And you've been writing up and down. And some of you haven't been practicing properly, but practice properly. But three to five years and you will see people become enlightened in the three year period. I hope it gives you an idea that you can do it too, but you gotta stop being all confused and weird. You have to do better. You have to, I mean, just take a moment and say I'm gonna just let heaviness go away. I'm not gonna hang on to heaviness. I'm not gonna be negative. I'm not gonna be so assertive of what I want. Be, do the practice and just be, just be. Just do the practice, it's intense, it's this intense practice and just be. Don't let yourself get caught in this and that or I like this or I doubt that. All of the students will bring you off. It's the same as your introduction day of meditation.

1:09:57
Just be. So,

1:09:59
bring your focus from diversity into unity. If you don't wanna be a part of the golden pyramid of the Buddha Dojo, then elect yourself to create your own dojo called, what's your name? Kwan Do. No, please, go and do that. If you haven't listened to the teachings of diversity and unity, then you're confused, you're stuck in Maya. I want every single advanced student to work on Ananda Aina or Buddha Jojo. I know that you've been very caught up in your own enlightenment and oh I need my own time to sit there and go like hmmm. You haven't done a good job, I did yoga. When Mandala became enlightened, she did yoga. When Sananda became enlightened, he did yoga. That's our school. That's who we are. There might be a lot of different ways, but that's our dojo. That's our enlightened experience. Mandela worked tirelessly. After she, the moment she became enlightened, she said, I have a lot of work to do. And before the moment she became enlightened, she did yoga. She was developing, she was developing, teaching technology and developing our whole yoga structure, it just became clear in her mind, after enlightenment, that she had to train people, teach people, do myWebDB, which reincarnated as AppBuddy. The seed of yoga in our school came from her enlightenment. I mean, we did yoga before, we just did it bad. But the seed of yoga in our school came from Mandala's enlightenment. So, you got an idea of something else you want to do? Okay, go ahead and do it. But advanced We're going into a structure. You don't like the structure? Then go do what you want to do. That's fine. It's just that don't do it halfway. If you're like, I sort of want to do this, I sort of like this thing, and I'm sort of confused, then you're going to wash out of here. You're gonna wash out of enlightenment, being sort of. Like at this point, you don't get it. And you're like a little bit here and a little bit there. You're definitely not gonna be with me. I'll be like, oh, you know what? Enjoy your ideas. And I'm asking you to volunteer now. If you've got things to figure out, go and figure them out. I want to work with people who aren't confused. And if you're confused, get unconfused. And if you're not unconfused, go away. Or join my free class, where I will give you a tremendous amount of light at that level. And maybe that's all you need. You don't need to operate at higher levels. That's enough. A brown belt can come to a white belt class and still feel the light and power of the school and advance. You don't need to come to the sparring classes, the advanced classes. You just need a If you want to give up that connection, then good luck. Go start your own dojo, follow some random teacher. It has worked for not a lot of students who got the advanced teachings. I mean, I don't think any, I can't think of any. I mean, because there's other teachers out there who say a lot. And there's a lot of other teachers who are from this school. Check their record. How many enlightened students do they have? How advanced are they in yoga? They might be really nice. They might have a good idea, a good judo throw. This is a bigger position that I'm talking about. So yoga, advanced students look to yoga. So I was at a meeting about Ananda Ina developing the Hawaiian retreat. And I was sitting there listening to these very strong yogis coming up with, how are we going to pull this off? This is a massive project, multiple constructions, multiple millions of dollars.

1:15:46
What are we gonna do?

1:15:47
How are we gonna financially plan it? How are we gonna plan it with different people at different places to build this whole thing? And after a while, I was like, yeah, that one. But they all had their like, should we do this?

1:16:04
And I'm like, yeah!

1:16:05
But they all knew what they were gonna do. They brought it up, they knew what the thing was, and I just was putting my little Tim Burr stamp on it. And then after a little while, I was gone. I was gone in this light. Because they were talking about business of creating our spiritual retreat in Hawaii. And I was like, yeah, and it got brighter and brighter and brighter, and then I was in nirvana. And then after a while, I came back.

1:16:33
But it was amazing.

1:16:34
All of them are very great. All of them are bringing to it power and attention. But Parvati, who was the CTO of Apati, she, like last week or the week before, took on this task of looking at the big picture. And then she, in the second attention, created this whole structure,

1:17:04
along with the spirit of everything,

1:17:07
because the spirit was created, the spirit, the enlightened spirit. She was able to take that enlightened spirit as a yoga leader, bring it out into so much detail. As she was saying on this meeting, she's like, I see the whole project done. I know how it's gonna work out. In the second intention, she created a structure. The whole thing's done. I sparked off the truth. She created the whole way it's going to play out. That's what you can do. Any of you. There's 10,000 truths, diamonds and jewels of enlightenment. And if you use it, you can do anything you want. Great, beautiful, powerful things. But if you take the jewel and go, I'm gonna find my own jewel. I like my own jewels. This one's a diamond, but I see a granite rock, which I think is cool because I'm drawn to it. You're a fool. So this is the time where you want to be on a team, you want to be on a soccer team? You're on a team. You want to be your own soccer team?

1:18:30
Go do it.

1:18:31
See how it works out. I mean, I've seen lots, even direct students of this great master go up and down, here and there, this and that, all over the place. The majority of them. Some did great, some did amazing. Agni Kala, Turiya, great. Shiva, amazing. The 99% of the rest of them, direct students whose lives were transformed and empowered and they have many stories of enlightened, amazing them. They're like, yes, my teacher in the sky, walked in the water, empowered me, and then I learned something and I totally transformed and I got a tech job. I got a black belt. I got a scuba certificate, right? They've went through all sorts of amazing things. And then on their own, stuck in the freezer? Or start your own dojo on the corner store? Figure out your thing. But the Buddha Dojo is a place of unity. If you want to go to a place of diversity, go. Your way. Find your way. Take me as a free teacher. In my second intention I'll help you. You can watch my free teachings. You'll see power in life. I never give up on you. But I'm going to put my power into a group of people who want to develop something together. So, you want to go? Go. You're confused? go you have doubt go it's time i guess if you can't do better if i've been i haven't been doing this for months then go i would rather get rid of it stop it off so wake up

1:20:43
stop having so much confusion and illusion

1:20:46
Confusion, illusion, and delusion. Oh, should we take a break? It's been a while, right? All right, we're gonna take a break. And then when we come back, nerd bashing time. All right, we're gonna take a break for 10 minutes, and then we'll come back, and then we'll see what happens. I might repeat myself. Hello. All right, I just have like a few more hours of things to tell you, but they're the same things. So let's just do a time warp. Okay, so my teacher said, in Buddhism, if something's important, it has to be repeated many times. And I remember in my first teachings with my teacher, he talked about meditation a lot. And then after a while, he talked about the lies of media. And he said,

1:22:13
there's all these rumors and aspersions being cast.

1:22:16
He said, no one's brought them to me. No one's come before me, stated these things, no one's brought me to court, sued me, so there's all these weird things. Being a California guru with blonde hair is misunderstood. Jesus was a little bit misunderstood to the point of death on a cross. So these things happen with enlightened people. Buddha, three times they tried to kill him. Padmasambhava, only once. They tried to burn him at the stake and then they realized So, that happens sometimes to some great beings. Buddha didn't die from assassination, nor did Padmasambhava, or many enlightened teachers. But many more were killed. There's many more stories of enlightened teachers, or, I mean, how can you say they were enlightened now? They might have been heretics.

1:23:39
But these spiritually powerful people.

1:23:42
So my teacher said I'm spiritually powerful and people don't understand it and they get freaked Good thing they're not here now. Now we have much more definitions for every dimension of confusion. Everyone who's confused can become a victim and be angry about it. Because you're confused. Because you don't understand life. Here's the big thing about Buddhism. Chaos is not wrong, and destruction is not wrong. In Buddhism, we open our hearts to the divine beyond what measure we can want for the self. When you want justice in your way, you're full of ego. Our basic teaching in our school is, hey, if someone wronged us, have compassion for them. Look how they harmed me and robbed me, they threw me down and robbed me, right? This is a very basic teaching of the Buddha. Live in such thoughts and you live in hate. Abandon those thoughts and live in love. Not that you didn't get harmed or beaten or robbed, but if you dwell in those thoughts, you live in hate in your mind. The echo of suffering and anger and revenge exists. So you got to look back up. All of us have been wronged and hurt. We all have to practice a greater enlightenment. Comes from Bodhicitta. So if something hurt you, if someone in the Sangha wronged you, what is the answer? You putting them in jail? You making them suffer? You giving revenge? Isn't the answer compassion? Don't you recognize that that's important, we repeat it. I've talked about job yoga for years. I've talked about compassion for years. I've talked about meditation for years. This is important. This is important. We've talked about it over and over. All of our talks are about letting go of self, meditating, having compassion, doing job yoga, right livelihood, karma yoga.

1:27:06
These are things that are important

1:27:08
and that's why I talk about them endlessly. And to advance students, I raise it up to a place where you start to get to the more refined places of attachment, of ideas. Because when all you have to do is like Mila Rapa, build a tower, it's easy. You're lucky. That's a great place for an intermediate student. Build a tower.

1:27:37
Oh, bye.

1:27:39
Build a tower, you idiot.

1:27:41
Okay.

1:27:43
And little by little by when you do it, you become powerful, wise, and strong. I was an idiot until I built a tower or two or three or four. And Dharma and Parvati can say the same. They were idiots before they built some towers. They are masters now because they built towers. The Rapa built towers and he's a story of liberation through work. That's why I'm telling you advanced students, Bodhans, I'm sure you'd better be doing it. Look at what's going on. Don't just get into, I'm going to sit and meditate until I'm enlightened. If you're not enlightened right now, forget it. Go and do yoga. Look at the Buddha Dojo. If you don't like the Buddha Dojo, get out of here and do your own thing until you figure out your own way and then you're welcome back. But I'm on a team of advanced students who are aligned. If you're all confused, then you're advanced. You've got all you need go and figure it out But those of you who see a strength in this unity, which is my big teaching for months since all of this Maya has occurred So if you don't like what I'm saying do your own thing you like what I'm saying. Let's get on board and work together.

1:29:37
Yeah, that's it. And if you work together,

1:29:40
and advance student, be an advanced yogi. Impeccable, selfless, basic yoga. All right, I'd like to sit with you for one last song.

1:30:01
Sit up nice and straight.

1:30:02
We're going to bring a soft focus to the third eye and I'd like you to look up here towards

1:30:10
me.

1:30:11
Thank you. the the the Thank you. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So the the the the the the the the you All right, everyone. So we have many great things to do. Lots of wonderful challenges challenges of the Dharma before us. Let's work together. Thank you. Some time to do some one-on-ones after this. Hanuman and Ashna are keyed up and if there's others, let me know. I guess, I have a little bit of time, so if there's a few people, I have Ashna and Hanuman,

1:35:52
and if there's a couple others, if it's an emergency, then guess what? and if there's a couple others, if it's an emergency, then guess what? I'm here.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
