0:00:00
Hello everyone.

0:00:02
So, I just want to say thank you to Jaya. That was a beautiful, powerful, and very realistic experience of the study. you will have success, like success in martial arts, personal development. But this was a very good focus. This was the kind of focus that we do in our job yoga, in our career success. like a yogic aid, a help of the Sangha for the care of all beings, whether they're good at yoga or not. This is Raj's next teaching and also EJ's teaching after. I have to say, I was going to do some advanced teachings and Bodharma teachings on Mount Tam after this, but it's not going to happen. I would love it to happen, but we've kind of gone a little bit too far in terms of all this wonderful enlightenment and sharing with everyone. So we're going to do the Advanced Teachings and the Bodhan Teachings over Zoom. So we have some wonderful things coming up, but don't worry you don't have to put on three jackets and drive all the way up to the mountain we're gonna do you know all of this I wish all of this would be in the in the gorge and the Anza Vergo desert but it is gonna be here and it's gonna be now and it's gonna be in your mind in the most beautiful ways, so we're going to move on right now to a

0:02:06
beautiful thing

0:02:08
understanding this great thing that we're creating the dojo the Buddha dojo that all of you have created and helped with by bringing your positive intent and then understanding this tremendous power of what it is to be a great yogi, to be a successful yogi, to do substantive, real help in yoga for a group, for me, Jaya's teaching. And now we're going to a point where Raj is going to talk about he has created a yoga that helps people, helps him, helps other yogis. But he wants to do it where it helps you. He wants to create a yoga to help you. Wherever you're at, working in Starbucks, not at the computers, here, there, and everywhere, this is the Every Yogi's Yoga. So I'd like to turn it over to Raja to share this yoga plan of e-commerce.

0:03:19
Thank you.

0:03:20
Hello, good evening.

0:03:21
Good evening and good morning and good afternoon, everybody.

0:03:25
So my name is Raja. Thank you for listening.

0:03:28
So, yes, our opportunity is called E-commerce Yoga. But what's more important is the subtitle, right? It's something that the Sangha does for the Sangha. And I will later explain how this came, this happened. But to start with, as EJ mentioned, it's very important to have the right vision. And the good news is that, you know, I think Samer had the vision for this when he met Jonathan. So we definitely have the right vision. And Jonathan is an esteem to an older student of, you know, a student of Ram Rinpoche, who has been working on e-commerce for about four years, and he figured out certain structures. And, you know, $1 million a month right now in sales. And he was so selfless to share his techniques, sales techniques with us. So I'm gonna talk about what this means for us. But before we jump into e-commerce yoga, collapse this, good.

0:04:41
Let's look at financial goals a little bit,

0:04:43
you know, what someone on EJF already mentioned right um what are we focusing on here right first step one strong job strong career then you're going to work your way up and to have top income right it's because cash flow equals energy flow right money is just a tool nothing else right but if you have money then you have a tool that can you know buy you certain things that can help you deal with difficulties in a world where you might be sensitive and the world is very difficult. Then because you have top income, you can have savings, right? You can have financial balance, right? That's still kind of like step one. Step two, as you're working on your career, you're working on your Karma Yoga, and then you can succeed in Karma Yoga like how Ebba did and Zen cloud did. We have two amazing examples already where people put in their time and it's very important in the beginning for free. I had the same experience. What did I get out of Karma Yoga? Selflessness, impeccability and detachment. I know it requires some sacrifices, yeah, no goat, no chicken, but I put in about $100,000 so that we can experiment and try to work on different car maybe projects so that's the second step you know as you know some were talked about Hawaii right so we have some additional plans right you know retirement right but retirement you know who wants to retire when we are 64 right you know I mean it's cool but what if we can do it earlier right and so early retirement is is our phrase not just retirement. If you have a few million dollars, like just a couple people in the sangha, then it's easy. But we are looking at other options so that you can earn a living, have some passive income that supports you regardless of where you are in your practice. You can be somebody brand new, or maybe you are around for 15 years or 20 years and you're like well you know I could use $5,000 a month in income so and in general you can see I put there it's us I'm talking about US numbers right so in the United States we need a little more money maybe 10 times more to 5 times more to retire here right but again so what you know what I'm looking into it and is an I'm sharing with you is the option that in case you don't have millions of dollars, then you know, what can you do, right? Maybe, maybe you have, you know, some savings or very little savings, there are a few hundred thousand dollars, right, which is by itself not enough to retire at the moment, right? But you know, if you could have some passive income added to that, let's say that covers most or all of your expenses, you know, then that might work really well and you might be able to retire or have like a one year break in between contracts, right? How good is that, right? For example, advanced students, right? You take a year break, you get enlightened, then you figure out what you wanna do after, right? So passive income is important. Okay, let's jump into e-commerce, Yogana. So what the hell is e-commerce dropshipping? That's what we do, e-commerce dropshipping. It's selling physical goods, so physical products online without having an inventory. That's very important because I worked on different car megal businesses where we had inventory. But that's a pain. You have to buy the product and then hope that it's going to sell. If you have 100 products, you have to buy 1 or 10 or 100 of each and you're just going to hope that they're going to sell before they expire. Let's say it's food or batteries, right? Then they might expire after a while and it's going to be difficult to sell them, right? And then you lose money. So what's cool about e-commerce dropshipping is e-commerce means we sell online, right? And we wait for the customer to order first, right? So which means we list products, but we don't buy them. And by listing those products in online stores, e-commerce stores, it will be available for the customer to buy. They purchase it, and then we're gonna buy it after and ship it to the customer. Right, so we actually don't even touch the product, right? What happens is that we go to a supplier, we list their product details on our website, on our website, and then if the customer, when the customer orders, we ship it from the supplier to the customer via UPS, FedEx, whatever. So as you can tell, low risk, low investment. We don't need to have hundreds of thousands of dollars sitting in the product, in stock, right? And also it's kind of like, you know, trading, but you know, we can't really lose money, right? If there's no order, maybe we don't make money. But if there's order, then we make money, right? So it's a very, it's a very good and interesting deal. Okay, where did it start? Right? So I think it was like around February when Jonathan, this st to this student of Ram Rinpoche came and somewhere and a few other older students, And he shared his vision and his vision, you know, accidentally was that he would like to create e-commerce stores for other people. He's like a very impeccable, very great yogi, very selfless. And also he's an expert, right, in software engineering and now in e-commerce also. So he shared his idea and so I was like, let's give it a try. Let's bring in four impeccable karma yogis so that we know if it fails, it's not on us. We're gonna be impeccable, then maybe the system doesn't work, right? So four of us jumped in and our goal was that in six months we wanted to make about, I would say, $2,500. But then in half the time we made that money. And we're like, okay, this seems to be working. So I think it was around May, it was around May 22, when I talked to Sambara, when my contract ended. And he had two questions, or he had one question and one suggestion. His question was, could we repeat the same for the whole sangha to make thousands of dollars and without doing any work, right? And I said that sounds like an interesting challenge, right? My background is, I was a carbiobi from the beginning, I guess I succeeded, I caught Mandela's attention in QA and then somewhere else attention in sales, you know, I think a couple of us, we started in 15 years ago, Dakini and Saturi, we did a good job and we succeeded and then we became yoga leaders and I successfully failed with many many yoga projects till 2013. When EJ came in he taught us very powerful business principles but no worries I was able to fail even after that but you know those I pretty much have about 9 years of karma yoga leading experience but I'm able to see look back and see how much they helped me each one and maybe kind of like a little side track is that one one yoga leaders beware. You know we don't pay people right that's a big trap right because you're going to ask people to do what you think they should be doing but they but you think but they're not going to do what they should actually be doing right. So one big advantage on this project is that we are making an effort to pay everyone on this team. Of course, a couple of very impeccable selfless karma yogis came in and they said, OK, you don't have to pay me. Let's see if this succeeds. Let me go to the next slide before we jump into the details. So what do we do? Right, so we followed this ST2 Jonathan system and we built our own system to sell products online on eBay and Amazon. And with about a 10% profit margin, right? So that means, you know, anyone who is interested and I will explain the options at the end, we can open an eBay store and Amazon store for them, And then we have some invoicing and money rotation going on because we have to get the money back to Jonathan so that he can buy more products. But it's very simple. And now our system enables you that you don't really have to do any work.

0:13:31
OK.

0:13:33
So, just very high level business roles and responsibilities again, so you know Jonathan is our external business partner You know he has about 70 employees. He knows what he's doing. He's working on scaling His business so that he can grow five times bigger right and that's that's perfect right he said he wants to go from 1 million Dollar per month to 5 million And I told him that's perfect because we're gonna make 4 million dollars in sales for our sangha so our plans are perfectly aligned. And he has really great vision. He's a very strong yogi and very clear vision that he has. And what we did so far is we learned customer support from his team and store management. And there are some things that maybe they are not familiar with, so we are learning those things too. And we are also doing the store set up for eBay and Amazon. And we created, you could say one company, but we are actually scaling three companies right now. I'm gonna share the details in a moment. So, what is our vision, right? So, what I mentioned before, this is Sanga for the Sanga. So, what does that mean? It means that we are making an effort, an attempt to hire from the Sangha. And for now, all of our consultants, part-time, full-time employees, they're all from the Sangha. And also our vendors, most of our vendors are from the Sangha. It's very, very important. And so we are relying on Indian, Hungarian, and US Sangha, and building an organization that we can create a financially sustainable, scalable and successful structure where not just the employees are getting paid, who is Sango, right? But also the investors and the store owners who is also Sango, right? So what I really like is whenever I see money coming in, I don't care if it goes to the investor because I know somebody in the Sango makes money or the store owner, right? Or the employee, it's all Sango, right? So it's really beautiful all money that comes in goes to the sangha or of course Jonathan has his profit share but still that's our Maha Sangha right so we are splitting our profit with him because he does a substantial amount of work at the moment so again very high level so in Hungary we worked with the bookkeeping yoga of course you know based on my karma yoga background, I require a higher level of impact abilities and just, just past couple weeks, you know, I asked them to step up and then we kind of like we split from the bookkeeping team and created a stronger team. Maybe one thing that's very important that our manual processes are already running, but we are working on automating the system so we don't have to, we might grow a hundred times bigger, but you're not going to hire a hundred times more people. Maybe we hire a couple more people, but we want to really work on automation. So in India, we also want to provide job opportunity for primarily for Sangha. If there is somebody who qualifies, you already hired a couple of people there to provide customer support and help us with operations. And then in the US again, primarily in the US, you know, we would like to help you as a Sango member to make passive income. For now, we are just focusing on the US. It's a big enough, big enough bite to chew. But later, you know, we can move on to the European market and the Indian market, maybe work with Flipkart and other e-commerce, e-commerce stores. Okay let's look at the results right it's like again this is just about in eight or nine months so we made 700,000 a little more than $700,000 in sales our profit is about more than $70,000 we hired 11 people and we created 21 Ebay and Amazon stores for Sangha people and we also have an investor right so you know whatever we planned it's looking pretty good you know of course there are some moving pieces but that's our job to create a system that even though the pieces move you still make money let's look at our goal for next year yeah kind of scaled it down a little bit just so that so that it's not so scary but again we just want to grow ten times bigger next year you know maybe make seven, $7 million or, or more, or, you know, based on Jonathan's estimation, you know, we would make 20 million, right. But yeah, I'm see if you make $7 million, then I will be happy, then our profit will be around $700,000. And you know, that's most of that would go to the Sun God, either employees or investors, right? How powerful is that? We're gonna hire, you know, maybe 10 or 20 more people next year. And what's very important is that we are following one principle that I learned from the Facebook founder and what Facebook follows is that if there is an innovation, they say, okay, cool, good job, you did an innovation. But if you do something, if you do an automation, if you replace somebody else's work with an automated task, with a software, with an automated Google spreadsheet function, then they reward that 10 times more, right? That's why Google is 100 times bigger, not in revenue, but in terms of employees, right, compared to Facebook, right? So Facebook is a much more efficient company. And again, next year, on average, our goal would be to onboard, which means to create an eBay and Amazon store for anyone who's interested. Right now, it seems that probably we can do it for 60 more people. And what would be cool about that is that, you know, then we would have 20 employees and maybe 80 store owners and investors, right? So by the end of next year, about 100 people from our sangha will start making money from this project. How much time is required for me? Just to avoid misunderstandings, right? Kind of zero, right? So, you know, usually I work with the new people who are interested, we have a presentation, and then in two hours we can create an eBay and Amazon store, we spend maybe a few more minutes in the weeks coming to perform verifications, and then the stores are ready to go, and we are taking care of everything. So there's no time let's look at the high level options right there's A, B and C. First option is you can be the store owner and the investor right investor just means the right word is you provide funds so that we can buy the products that we're gonna sell in your store right because it requires we don't buy the products up front but we need a couple days of preparation. So we need money for that. So people who have money, what we do is we reward them more, right? And they get a 40% profit share, which is again, if you look at e-commerce, usually the profit share they provide is 25%, right? So we made some adjustments here so that the Sango store owners and investors can make more, right? Instead of 25%, you can make 40%. And our goal is, compared to where you started, assuming your eBay and Amazon store is running successfully, you're gonna make $4,000 in profit per month by the end of the first year. And that point on, you can decide to keep that $4,000 profit, meaning that make $4,000 per month, or grow it further. But for now, this is our like minimum plan Same way option B is let's say, you know, there's somebody who doesn't have money to invest like, you know, no money, right? Then you can be a store owner, right? Of course, then we will provide a little less profit share which is about 20% of the total profit so again our Estimated goal here is to get to two thousand dollars of profit per month by the end of the first year, right? And if you're an investor, kind of similarly, you can make 20% of the profit share. You just put in money and then you don't give your name or information to create stores. I think it's very simple. And that's it, right? So, you know, and I created a Google form which I'm gonna send email you out to you guys tomorrow. And you can sign up. And then I will just invite you to a presentation where you can learn more about the details. But it's very, very important, right? Is that, if this is passive income, so you don't have to do anything, right? And it's an opportunity to support you, right? And you know, EGF will come after me. He will present another option, right? So the two together can bring you to a substantial income per month. So thank you very much, and happy solstice.

0:22:34
Thank you, Raja.

0:22:36
All right, everybody, that was a lot of detail

0:22:40
of a wonderful opportunity. So I have to say this, this is a yoga that has been working for 10 years that has been making people their only job for 10 years. Now it's been making people their only job spending four hours a week, making six to $12,000 a month. Okay, now what Raj is doing is he's actually taking all that work, so he does it himself. So that you don't have to spend six to 12 hours a month to figure out the business. He knows the business. And he is gonna do the work for you. So he's scaling it. This is something that one of Ram Rinpoche's direct students has created and has been successful for more than 10 years and has helped other students learn, teaching them so that they can do it. And I have a number of students, Yogi Thao Chi, besides Raja, who have learned it, who are doing it themselves. It's great, but what Raj is doing is he is gonna do it for you, where you don't have to think about it. You don't have to learn the business. You have to spend maybe two hours a month in kind of administrative tasks, and he's gonna make you, on the worst case scenario, $2,000 a month for your two hours a month. And his goal is to make you 6,000 a month for your two hours a month. So he's been building this up and scaling this and it is something that's been working for 10 years. It's the same process, it's just that he's developing it as a yoga where he can do it for you. So this is a yoga that helps the whole Sangha. This is what he's trying to tell you. And he knows all the details. And this is 10 years of the same program that he's succeeding with, that other yogis in our school are succeeding with. He is doing it for the whole Sangha. So this is something I want to say. In all this big craziness of our school, we are looking out for you. We want you to learn. If you come to my karate class, I'm going to teach you the best to be able to be strong. If you come to my tech class, you're going to be a computer programmer. If you're going to come to my yoga class, you're gonna be a yogi. If you care, if you want to participate, you will be successful. This is a black belt school. Look at all your advanced teachers. Look at all the teachers who have been here. Everyone succeeds. If you want to, focus on it. Now, Raj is doing a beautiful thing that I always dreamed of for everybody, for these great teachers like Apari, Raja, Ijeya, Dharma Parvati, to create a success so that this new yoga of making money for people, where they only have to put in a little bit of effort, and he does all the work. These are things that we do for each other as a sangha. We want to develop each other to help each other, to lift each other up. That's what Ampady did for the whole sangha. And this is what Raj is proposing. Now we're going to move on to another wonderful segment of how does the Sangha, smart people who've done yoga for lots of years, help the whole group.

0:27:07
We're going to move on to EJ again. Thank you.

0:27:11
Hello again.

0:27:12
So I will share my screen and move my little windows around. Uh-oh, wrong button.

0:27:28
Present. Okay. Hi, everyone.

0:27:31
Thank you, Sumbara, and thank you, Raja.

0:27:36
So I've been following along with all the work that Raja and others have put into this e-commerce yoga, and it is amazing. Raja is an incredibly humble guy, but the work and just the brilliance that's gone into that so far is really, really impressive, and we're all going to be able to benefit from it. So as Sombar mentioned, myself and a few other folks have also been working on what we call Sanga FX trading, which is another opportunity for members of the Sanga to increase wealth over time. So specifically what we were trying to do here is to establish a viable way for U.S. and non-U.S. residents to invest in Marpa's FX trading. I'm going to explain what all of that means shortly, but this is what we're trying to do. And the statue you'll see here is the goddess and bodhisattva of wealth, Vasudhara. And whenever we talk with Sambhara about, hey, how can we help the Sangha? It's very clear, we wanna help everyone to make the most money for the most people possible in our community as fast as possible. And MarpaFX trading is a very, very promising opportunity that we're working on to make this happen. Now, before we get started, I do want to share a couple of things because while e-commerce is really creating your own business, this is a little bit more of an investment. So we are talking about money. And I am not a personal financial advisor. I don't have a license. Investing is very highly regulated in the U.S. and around the world. And so this is not a presentation for financial advice. And it's also not a solicitation. Right. So it's actually very clear. There's a lot of regulations around how all of this stuff works. So I want to make clear, I am sharing with you what we've been working on and a future vision that we've made tremendous progress on this year. And please keep this just within the Sangha, right? So this is confidential. This is, again, like Raja shared with e-commerce, this is not something we want to make available more broadly.

0:30:11
One of the things I recommend highly

0:30:13
is that Parvati and Vidya earlier this year put together an amazing presentation on financial tonal. So how to build financial power for yourself using all the principles that we've learned from Sambara. So that's available to any student and it's fantastic. So what are you talking about EJL? What is FX trading? Why would we care? Well, to start FX is also known as Forex and it stands for foreign exchange, the foreign exchange marketplace. So what this is, is we have people from all over the world on this call. So in America, we use US dollars to buy things. In Europe, they use euros. Not a really creative name for the currency, but it works for them. And so what's interesting is that each of those currencies around the world will fluctuate in value. So if you were in Paris, you might want to buy a souvenir. And one day when you buy the souvenir, it costs five euros. You could buy that with four US dollars. You could exchange those dollars for five euros and then buy it. Now, later on, it might cost six US dollars to buy the souvenir that cost five euros. So the price hasn't changed in terms of euros, but the value of the dollar relative to the euro changes. And this is happening every day. It is literally the largest marketplace in the world where people and banks and institutions, they trade on these fluctuating values of currencies. I have no idea how it works, but I just know that exists. And Marpa actually does know how it works. So here is Marpa. Well, this is not a picture of Marpa in real life, but this is how I like to envision Marpa. This is James Bond. So Marpa is a long time student of Sambaras in the Hungarian Sangha. And he has been developing a process for over a decade to trade successfully in FX. He's also a wonderful guy. I've spent a lot of time with him over the years and he's just the greatest guy. So a few of us in the Sangha have informally gifted Marpa money over the years to apply all of what he's been learning and to trade with that money and really perfect his process. And so he's been doing this for five to 10 years and accumulating data and it works. Because why would anyone want to do this? Well, in the last five years, just as an example, Marpa's returns from these tradings have averaged over 35% per year. If you compare this to what Warren Buffett, one of the richest people in the world and arguably the best investor to ever live, recommends for the average investor, he says, just invest in the S&P 500 because over time that usually is the best investment to make. Well, we've been in a great market over the last five years. The S&P 500 is still only returned about 14% per year. So one of the recurring themes here is that 35% is bigger than 14%. So we like that. And that could be a really good thing for us. So what's also very interesting is, if you remember earlier this year, the coronavirus came out, businesses, countries shut down, there was tremendous uncertainty. That S&P 500 and all of the stock markets in the world crashed. They went down 30, 40%. But the relative prices of currencies just are independent of that. So while all of that was happening, Markle was still trading very successfully. And so it doesn't have the same fluctuations that you might have in the stock market, which is amazing. And he's proven this over several ups and downs over the last several years. So that makes it a really, really attractive and wonderful investment opportunity. So just to put this in further perspective, if you had $10,000 and about five years ago, you invested that in the S&P 500 index, you'd do very well. That would be a good investment. After taxes, you would probably have about $14,000 to $15,000. This is all estimates because taxes, et cetera, take a little work to calculate. But this is based on the historical returns that you see in the S&P 500. If you had invested that $10,000 with Marpa, even after taxes, and those taxes are pretty considerable, when you're making money like this, you would still have over $30,000. So again, starting with 10,000 and ending up with 14,000 is good, but starting with 10,000 and ending up with over 30,000 is better. So, okay EJ, this is great, sounds good. Why don't we just give Marpa more money to trade? I will not share all of the details about why that is extremely difficult. But I would just go back to what I said earlier. Several of us have spent a lot of time studying and understanding financial laws, investment laws and everything, and they're very, very highly regulated. And so, especially for US investors, it's shockingly difficult to invest money overseas where we would need to be able to get that money to Marpa to trade with. Amazingly difficult. So, we've been working on this for quite a while. Now, good thing is, as we've looked into this, it seems like non-US based investors may have an easier time. So, there may be even much less, you know, hurdles for someone who's not in the U.S. to have to get over to be able to take advantage of this opportunity, which is great. And we're still looking into it. We've started with the U.S. because, frankly, that seemed to be the most difficult, and most of the Sangha wealth right now is in the U.S. So this has now been a yoga that we started in January of this year to find a solution to this challenge. The opportunity is so fantastic that we felt like there had to be a way, and we've been working with Sombara to find that way. So one of our senior yogis in the school in Hungary, Csodan, helped us find a brilliant Hungarian financial lawyer. And he has been instrumental in helping us with this. And then we also have consulted with a top 50 global firm here in the US to really understand everything that we'd need to do to make this a legal and viable business that we could build to achieve these investment returns. And so we have created a company. We just put a few letters together, MCIS ZERT. And ZERT is Hungarian, similar to ink in America. It basically means we have a corporation. So it's like incorporated, but Hungarian because this is based in Hungary. And this company can now accept US investors and meet all of the requirements for FX trading. So this is now live. As of about a month, it took us that long to get just this far, but really exciting. And we launched that company and I am currently the first US investor. So like Raja shared, we're very willing to take the upfront risks and put in the upfront time and costs because we see such a great opportunity and it could mean so much for the Sangha if these can become reality. So I'm starting. And then another senior student in the Hungarian Sangha, an impeccable, powerful yogi, Anut, is the CEO of this company and also our EU-based initial shareholder. So it's very important that we have shareholders outside the US in this company. And she has volunteered and stepped up to do that. So I'm so grateful for all of the support she's provided. And then Chodan, who found the lawyer in the first place, who's made all of this possible, is also the CFO or the chief financial officer because that is actually her expertise and she's built a very successful business managing accounting and finances for companies. So we have this team. And the last step before we go further with investing is there is still a lot to make sure we navigate in terms of US tax laws. So we generally know what's involved, but there's actually a few options in terms of how we file our taxes, et cetera. And so we're going through that now. But the great news is that we were already able to put some money into this company and Marpa is trading with that and achieving all of the same success he had before we created this additional structure. So this is really, really good. And Marpa actually sent out this GIF. So he is driving the car and the car seems to get us where we want to go, which is really, really exciting. So where do we go from here? Like I mentioned, over the next few weeks, we actually have a call on Monday, which will hopefully tomorrow figure out the rest of this U.S. tax question. And then going into the first part of next year, we can start to slowly add in a few high net worth investors who can also take the risks and possibly manage some of the setup fees to get this going. So just to give you an idea, it looks like to file taxes on this kind of investment, the way we have right now, it could cost upwards of $10,000 per person, right? And that's not gonna be reasonable for most investors. So we want to get this going so that we can expand it to start and have a few people take that initial risk and upfront. So then we have it going further and we have the time to then figure out ways. We already have several ideas for how anyone could invest without having to pay the same fees, et cetera, to get started. So we're really looking for ways to do that. Just in case you care, an accredited investor in the US is someone with at least a million dollars in net worth or at least $200,000 a year in annual income for the past three years. So basically, if you've done either of those things, the US financial legal system thinks that you at least have enough money or know enough about money to make investments that are more than just like buying a share of Amazon. So we're still working through making sure all of that's possible. It just gives you an idea of how tightly regulated things are in the US. And we're going through all of that process of figuring out how to open this up more broadly. So we will do that as soon as we make progress. So how can you contribute and participate? So like Raja mentioned earlier, get that first day job. We teach powerful, powerful job yoga here in the Sangha. So wherever you start from, you can start to build a strong career for yourself. And as you do that, you can practice the financial tonal, the financial best practices that have been presented earlier and that you can have access. And so you can manage your spending, set up your savings account, and hopefully start to build up savings and gain some experience with investing. It's still a great investment to invest in the S&P 500. Put a little in every month and start to see how that feels, because it's very powerful, and it can be new for many of us. So that's kind of like the beginning level of financial strength in our sangha is to get those things in place. But we wanna make this available to everyone. And so as you do these things, we're hoping to create this experience for you and for everyone else in the sangha, right? We're really, really excited about what's possible here. The last thing is be cool. This is from I Heart Huckabees. I love that movie. And what I mean by cool, I know she's like, shh. I mean, yes, like I said, this is confidential. But more importantly, you know, when you hear about these different opportunities, it's very natural to feel stress around money. You know, this is a stressful topic for all of us. It is for me. I, you know, I experienced a lot of stress around investing, making money, losing money, all of those things. So what we want to do is hear these opportunities that Raja's presented, I'm presenting, and be excited about them. But recognize that wherever we are, these are things we wanna make available to you. And you can just put one foot in front of the other with what you need to do right now. Raja is making Amazon and eBay, the e-commerce yoga available very quickly. And as quickly as he can, he wants to make it available for everyone. The FX opportunity, I think, may take a little bit longer to get to where we can make it available to everyone. But that is our goal. So, please trust that the goal is to support every member of our Sangha financially because we want to support every member's enlightenment. And the other thing I would ask is, you know, Marpa is the person who has figured this out. It's a very, very unique ability he's developed. And so we don't want to all of a sudden, like, you know, try to track down Marpa's cell phone number and text him every five minutes. Hey, Marpa, how's it going? How are you feeling today? You know, hey, I just read this article about FX. I thought you should know because you know eventually I'm gonna have a lot of money with you and I just want to make sure you're cool right and just all of these things that that would be natural to feel but but we want to just have a high regard for Marpa doing this and and just a positive support and you know it's attachment around hey this is a great opportunity opportunity that the song is working on for me and I really hope it comes to fruition and I trust that you know I will find out more when the time's right

0:45:46
so thank you so much

0:45:51
all right wonderful thank you so much so the important thing to understand here here is that there are great opportunities in the Buddha dojo. So, very powerful things. We've always had a school of let's learn technology to have a good career. And now we have, hey, a beautiful direction in life is let's live in Hawaii, a beautiful place, many places of power, beautiful warm weathers, beautiful warm ocean. We've been there so many times and had so many wonderful experiences. So let's live there, if you can. And all the things that we teach in the school are ways that you can. And then, hey, this wonderful thing. Marpa has been doing this for over a decade and he's been consistent in his returns and he's helped many people in the sangha over the years make great returns. And now Ijeya is making a structure so that everyone in the sangha can participate in this. This is a investment. It's a great investment. I remember I used to work at Odyssey Hedge Fund on Wall Street. It's just this like a hedge fund. You're like hey, if I go to a bank I get like 3% on my checking or something like that. But banks on Wall Street have some smart people who make a lot of money. So I remember I was working at Odyssey Hedge Fund and they were making 32% a year. And I was creating their trading system based on a smart trader. And so, Marpa is a smart trader and he's been working on it for decades, his whole life, to be able to do this. And he's capable, like a top trader on Wall Street. And so, just like when I worked at Odyssey, I took a guy who had an Excel spreadsheet that was all over the place, and he's calling on the phones and doing all this crazy stuff, and I created a system for him so that it was possible. Marpa, over his years, has created a system, and we've developed the system so that you can have many many more people in the Sangha who've been benefiting from his training and now we're creating a very strong tonal of of a group that we can all participate in an organization we can all participate in for that benefit and Then I go to what Raja did. And Raja is creating a structure where you don't have to have an investment. You have to have maybe two hours a month to get a benefit. So we have really strong yogis that have been developing themselves for years. And we have, in these regards, we have success. It's working. We're trying to scale it, grow it, so that it can help you. So hang in there, do your best, be part of the team. If you're gonna be free on the Buddha Dojo, great. If you really wanna push it more and you wanna go into a stronger focus on yoga, you wanna pay to be at a higher level, that's where you feel it's good for you, great. Either way, both of these opportunities are available to you. So the last thing that I would like to end with today, and this is a day of just great things, Hawaii, money, money, free money, other free money. Just be a part of it. But I'd like to finish with some spiritual names. This is a very big time, very powerful time, and a time where a lot of people have gotten their spiritual names. So many that I had to bring my Disney princess diary with all the names written down, because there's a number of people. All right, so I'm going to start with a group of the advanced students. So the first is Gabrielle, and Gabrielle's spiritual name is Aset. Aset is the original name for the goddess Isis. It's a very mystery school name from the ancient schools of Egypt. The next is Karina. Karina's name is Kubera. And Kubera Aniko. Aniko's name is Naya. Naya is a woman of wisdom. Naya was also a yogi with Martha. She was also one of the FX yogis. She did well. All right, and then we go to Elizabeth. Elizabeth's name is Srada, and Srada means faith. All of these names we will share so everyone could remember. Now that we're all kind of separate,

0:52:10
we're all kind of social distancing

0:52:12
where we're not meeting at the Cal Theatre all the time. So it's like, wait, I don't have a lot of occasions to say, hey, Shraddha, how's it going? So we're going to have to like be very mindful to share these names in our communications. It takes a little while, but it's important. It's important that when somebody gets a name that you start to address them with their name. If you forget, it's okay. But that's our mindfulness practice. Hilda. Hilda is GT. And GT is determination, determined action. Kind of like impeccable action. And then there's a Sophie and Sophie is Kriya. Kriya means like a yogic practice. All right now we're going to go on to some Bodhans. So with the Bodhans we have name is Darshini. Darshini means blessed. And Galia. And Galia is Kundalini. And

0:53:47
This is a good one.

0:53:49
We have a good one. We have a good one.

0:53:53
This is the second Kavi.

0:53:55
Really?

0:53:57
Who's Kavi? Ryan.

0:54:01
Oh.

0:54:03
Alright, this is Kavi. Alright.

0:54:07
Kavi, we're going to have to look at this. But this is Hao Chen, right? Yeah, Hao Chen.

0:54:13
Alright, we're going to look at this one again.

0:54:15
Right?

0:54:16
We're going to look at this one again.

0:54:24
And Janelle is Jaya.

0:54:28
That means victory. And Jenny is Avana. the end of unhappiness, like happiness, like satisfaction. All right, Melissa. Melissa is galana, and that means unity, like coming together, which is really an important one for these times. All right, then Maha. Maha is Amida. And Amida is the name of a Buddha, the kind of the primary So, it's one of the five Jnana Buddhas. In Chinese they say Amitofo. It's a very big teaching, that name. Nihala is Ching. Ching as in the I Ching, the classic of change. Olga is Kushali and Kushali is like a happy living really. Happy like thriving and happiness. Chilla is Tula and Tula is balance. I have some names for Hungarian students as well, but I will give them to you after, after, after. All right, these are our names for this time. All right, so we need to look at how, okay. So thank you all very much. Lots of themes at this time. So a lot of people advanced and a lot of Bodhans have come to this time where it's been a shift in our karma. It's been a movement. So we get our spiritual names when we get to a place of energy, of power in our spiritual practice where kind of our normal karmic name doesn't make any sense anymore, where our karmas have started to shift more into our dharmas. Our dharma practice has become stronger and more influential than our karmic existence. So that's when you start to go from, hey, my name is Jeff. And then after a lot of meditation and a lot of change, that name that I was given at birth, it's not so meaningful. And because I'm pushing so hard in my meditation, in my yoga, there's a new name that comes about that is more meaningful, that carries my spirit up. It's a Dharma name. So these are the spiritual names that we've got here. And a lot for this time because this is a powerful time. All right, y'all did very well. And I really want to thank Ijeya and Bhaja. These are very powerful experiences. And today is just Christmas.

0:58:28
This is Solstice Christmas.

0:58:29
What do we get? We get some meditation together, some teachings, and we get, you know, Ananda Aina. This is going to be our meditation center where we have powerful teachings in an amazing place. I've always wanted to be in this place of power in Hawaii. This is a place for all of us. And App Buddy bought it. It's our place because of App Buddy's success. And App Buddy is going on to teach everybody who wants to go up to that $80 level. This is gonna, like, These teachings come from people like Ichea, and super successful, capable people are going to teach you how to be super successful and capable. Takes a lot of work, but if you want it, you're going to succeed. You come into my karate dojo, if you want it, I guarantee you're going to be a black belt. So this is a place of success for everyone. And I have to say, Raja really taking this beautiful success of 10 years of this great growth where many yogis live off of this, $6,000 to $12,000 a year, this is what they do. Oh sorry, a month. When am I dying? A week! No, a month. Yeah, they live off this. And he's fashioning it, working it, so he can create it for everyone in the Sangha. Everyone in the Sangha. So, yogis are looking out for you. The yogis have created this beautiful place in Kona which is a place of power for all of us. So be a yogi, you know, do your best. This is a place of success and growth and congratulations to everyone who's gotten their spiritual names. Thank you all very much.

1:00:47
Bodon and advanced students in 10 minutes.

1:00:52
So we're not gonna go up to Mount Taiwan because that's crazy,

1:00:56
but we're going to do the teachings now. What was the other one that I had to say?

1:01:00
Oh yes, another thing is European students, when we're doing the Buddha Dojo in America where there's the different levels and the $80 per level. We're not doing that in Europe. So, or India, yeah. So only in the USA are we doing this free and then the next level $80. We're not promoting that in any other place. This is just, we have a big song that we've been developing and working with in America, so this is the right place for the Americans. And Hungarians, we already have our plans going on, and all the Europeans, this is not

1:01:51
your world, your plans.

1:01:53
And India. Okay, thank you. And someone's pointing here, too. Okay, so thank you all very much. Be well. And don't forget Christmas. Only a few of you came to Thanksgiving. Come to Christmas. Don't go home for Christmas. Count on me. This is an old standard. Yeah, coronavirus. Count on me. This is an old standard. Yeah, coronavirus. So jingle bells and all that. But be well everyone. Thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
