0:00:00
So, now we're going to have some stories. We're going to start with Tuki, who you have seen for the past couple weeks. And Tuki's going to have Patala give a teaching through her story about compassion and gratitude. And then we're going to have Saraswati. So Patala and Saraswati are here, so they'll just take my chair. But we'll start with Tuki. So next week is going to be a week for intermediate and advanced students. So for intermediate and advanced students, we have very, very special teachings. The week after that, I'll continue teachings on Bodhicitta for everyone. But I'm going to start giving the intermediate study, you start to gain a greater awareness, a higher belt rank, we call it. And in the intermediate study, there are powerful transmissions that really, really bring you up a notch. intermediate teachings that are the teacher transmissions. So a number of intermediate students have been asking me, hey, you know, my workplace knows I meditate and they're asking me, can I teach meditation? Or I have a family member who wants to learn meditation or I have a group of friends who want to learn meditation. So I'm going to give the transmissions for the intermediate students to be a teacher. And a teacher is magical. Remember your teacher? Remember me? So your meditation teacher, when you sat down with them for the first time, there was power in their teaching. And that's why you became a student. And then there's power in my teachings. And that's why you continue to be a student, maybe. But to be a teacher is a very powerful thing. When you start to teach, then you become stronger in the practice that you're teaching. So becoming a teacher is very, very powerful for your own meditation practice. So we're going to start with teaching, but I'm going to give it, during this COVID time, it's a powerful time. So the intermediate students, new intermediate students a long time to learn. You're going to learn them very fast in giving the powerful and intense intermediate teaching transmissions. And I think that will bring you to the advanced path a lot faster. We're going to go on to our stories. So Tuki is going to be up first and then we'll have a story here with Patala and Saraswati. And then after that, we're going to listen to three of the songs from the India album. Okay, so thank you. Thank you Samuel. So today I would like to share a story of gratitude and how gratitude helped me to transform from hardship to success and from hardship with people to doing compassion for them through gratitude. So at the end of 2018 I was reflecting on my life and at first I felt really sad because I thought I was a bad student and I thought I was not doing well and I just always caught up in self and in that reflection and in that sadness I was much more powerful and brighter. I started to feel a very good pathway to enlightenment. And for my teacher, just being there with me, even if I just fall over and over again. He was just there and practicing compassion for me. And he was never mad at me and hard on me. He was just always there and be gentle and compassionate. So in this feeling this gratitude for all the aspects in my life that is related to my spiritual path and my teacher. I asked myself, what can I do to give back and what can I offer to my enlightened teacher? And you know, you can give a gift or offer money and these are nice things to do, but what can you really give to a person who is enlightened. And I felt that the only thing I can do is just really make the teachings work for myself and be successful and become a good student. goal and I saw that how much my life transformed and I thought I need to give back and make it happen for others as well. So I made myself a goal to become a teacher myself so I can bring others to the pathway to enlightenment and connect to someone and make their lives happier and stronger as well. So the next six months was really really powerful to me because I just made everything work and you know like we it's so easy to skip meditation but I just decided that I just gonna do the 90 minutes no matter what and even if it was like 1 a.m. in the night and I didn't sit down to meditate yet, I just said, okay, no matter what. You know, I felt like I was on fire and I just wanted to do the practice well and then I never skipped a martial arts class anymore and I said I was doing really poorly so far but I see others doing well so I wanted to do the same and I started to be proactive and doing a lot of work on this and then I even volunteered to be the part of the setup crew because I wanted to give back to my sangha and to my teacher. Now what happened when we get close to the solstice is really magical because at last time before the power trip, Samara invited us for a last meditation and I saw what he was doing. I just felt that he just gives us the last chance to boost up our energy and so we can go into the source, it's the brightest way we can. And I was just so grateful for this opportunity. And I found it just such a generous thing for him to help us out with this meditation. So we sit down in the U-Rit and in the last minute, I decided to change the seat and I was sitting in the middle of, in the front row and next to other people and I just said, oh damn it, I was just sitting next to people who we had just some conflict before and I started to struggle with it and have thoughts and I said, okay, wait a minute, I was so happy that someone was coming and so inspired by this opportunity and now I'm doing the same that I used to do it different and I decided to, no matter if it's painful or hard, I just opened my heart and took into my heart everything that was present. My energy and my negative thoughts and the other people's energy and the energy of alignment and the energy of body foods, the soul space, the Anzalpore ego where we are heading to. And in that experience I started to feel and see that others might struggle as well. Sometimes when we sit down to meditate and the energy is so intense then people get caught up in thoughts and it's difficult to meditate. So I just asked, okay, what can I do to make this experience the best for everyone? So in that moment I decided to do the practice that Samarath taught us in another teaching, when you just generate the most you can imagine or create from yourself and offer it. So I did that, I offered, I just hold in mind this beautiful bright light and I was offering it to the moment, to my teacher and to the people present. And I imagine that this bright light gets added to Samara's light and it helps people to meditate better and relax and let go of thoughts and just make it brighter to everyone. Now what happened after was really powerful and beautiful because ever since I never had any issues with those people. I just look at them as very wonderful beings and I even developed a very great friendship with them where we help each other and whenever they need help I'm there and they can count on me and I've experienced the same with them so we became really good friends. And at the same time I was preparing, I was offering this gift to my teacher and I received another gift because a few days later I got my name, the name Tukti and that means when you throw yourself into your heart. Now this name became a koan for me because it's always there, it is always there to remind me that when things get hard and I would go into the path of self, there is another way and that is the way of bodhicitta and compassion. And when it is difficult to focus on the gratitude towards my teacher and towards my past, and then all of a sudden it just becomes easy and almost magical. But thank you, that was my story.

0:13:52
The particular story that I'm sharing is one that was pivotal for me when I was a beginner in the Sangha, and it was a powerful experience I had with gratitude, and it showed me the gift of helping others. So, here's my story. When I was a beginner, I was facing a lot of challenges in my personal and professional life. And I was living in a disempowering living situation. And over time, I came to realize that I had to get real and I had to make some significant changes in order to make progress in my life. And that meant moving out of my living situation and drastically changing my activities and who I spent my time with so that I could manage my energy in ways that were much healthier. But this task would be a very difficult undertaking for me because I had limited resources. So I talked to my yoga teacher at the time and I said, Hey, I need help. And he said, I'll ask and see who can help. And at that time, Ahimsa and I didn't really know each other too well. I think we barely knew each other. Yet she offered for me to temporarily stay at her studio for a temporary And I went about this great process changing my life, changing my activities, shifting my relationships with people, and actually embarking on a new career. I had just gotten a new job at the time, and I was really taking a leap of faith into a new life. So, in short, it was very intense for me. Those days were very, very intense. I hardly had any money. I hardly knew anybody. And there I was, you know, in her, sharing her living space, going through all these trials and things that were so dramatic at the time. It's funny to look at it now, but it was so difficult. And she was very kind to me. She listened and she taught me a lot in all our conversations. Her compassion and her advice was a grace to me. Was a real grace to me. She said, You need to save your money. Save your money to get on your feet. And she said, pay it forward. She said, When you become powerful, help someone else." And that really stayed with me. It stayed with me because she helped me at one of the hardest times in my life successfully. And that was priceless. That was huge. So big. a repayer, that I wanted to share that gift, that kind of opportunity with others also. So this was the reason why I started looking for ways I can help people. And eventually Eventually, I have learned that Atman needed help in a very similar way, and I was grateful to have an opportunity to give back. I felt that it was the least I could do for this miracle that happened in my life. And there was just happiness to share it with more people. There was just joy in giving back. And through this connection that I have, and that I have had with these people, I see and I have experienced the spirit of giving and how the gratitude from it just bears greater and greater opportunities and miracles for all. So thank you, thank you for listening and thank you, Ahimsa.

0:20:36
My name is Sarah Swaree. Thank you for having me. that I can be grateful for. I want to express my gratitude for Samara in my life. And to give perspective I need to share that before the study I was just like many people, busy creating my life and setting up my happiness and higher purposes and just busy busy just like the raccoon who is washing the cotton candy and then ends up ultimately unfulfilled. And so after a long quest I got the chance to meditate with someone and to meet him because he came to Hungary and he just came out of complete goodness because he learned that some students or some people there would be interested in learning from him meditation. So he came there, taught meditation, and he offered the opportunity to become his student. But this means that when you become his student, you connect with him and he puts your evolution onto his heart and he works for you, endlessly. He not just lets you to become his student, but he actually knows how to lead. So he knows what he's doing and he's not injuring us. You might think this is normal, or this is obvious, but I used to have a study and a teacher where I seriously injured myself and there was no support. And so it's a big thing. And what Samora does is that he gives us tools that empower us, where we can empower ourselves too. And he gives us structures that work. And he guides us and supports us in many ways even when we don't suspect it. And indeed I would say especially when we don't suspect it. And also he never gives up on us even when we would give up on us. He did not kick us out. I have not seen him kick out anyone who wanted to follow the pathway to enlightenment. And he works day and night, really. Although he tells us when we are screwing it up, so he really gives us a big simple one. And then we can learn from it. So since he is my neighbor, and also because of the 9 years in the practice I can tell that he is authentic and real and he is the living embodiment of his teachings. What a great spiritual friend to have, right? And we are lucky, like looking back I see that he has been there at every major decision point in my life. to meditate consistently and to keep meditating. And he taught me many ways of compassion and he thought that compassion is a practice and it doesn't work on autopilot. And also he was the one who was showing how power can actually be a good thing and taught me that I'm powerful. And also, I think which is the biggest, is that he taught and showed that complete liberation, so like full freedom, enlightenment can be realized in this very lifetime, for me and for anyone. That's the biggest, biggest king mercy of life. Because many people don't know this and they feel that there is something more, but they just don't notice and the people or their surroundings just don't reflect back. So in my previous, like in my early 20s, I would tell people that I have had enough of me and I want to overcome my fears or my self harassing thoughts, then at the best they would tell me to chill

0:25:24
out or just that it's just not possible, this is not a fairy tale, live your life, get a

0:25:31
boyfriend.

0:25:32
that we receive week by week is life changing. And the most I can do is that I live this opportunity to the fullest I can. And I want to share this truth with others. I want to be able to give it and become the embodiment of it. So thank you so much.

0:25:52
I'm back! All right, so now we have the great fortune to meditate and to listen to three of the new songs that we have on the India album. So we're going to switch over to Chi, and Chi is going to, like last time, give us an introduction to this music and to the songs and then we'll be

0:26:31
able to listen and still our minds to our new meditation album. So hey everyone, my name is Chi. I know some of you are joining us for the very first time and welcome. So just a quick introduction, I'm a meditation student at Sambaras, been a student for going on 11 years now, and I work on our music yoga team. So just 10,000 foot overview, and we have many practices that we do in this study. There's meditation, there's martial arts, there's mindfulness, there's learning software and technology, but music yoga is this very special practice, and it takes a lot of these concepts and really makes it part of your practice. So you're trying to create songs and music that facilitate other people's meditation. So we do a lot of inspiration based on places that we visit as a sangha and as Simbhara mentioned we're releasing an album in India. So we've been doing a couple of songs at a time and releasing it and I've been telling a little bit about the stories that inspired them for those of you who were not fortunate, didn't have the great fortune of joining us on one of these trips. So you get a direct experience both through the song and through a little bit of the stories. So picking up where we left off last time, we have the rickshaw ride to Teppasuji. So this is a song on the navel chakra. This is the last navel song on the album. So when we meditate we'll focus on the navel. And this is a song that was really, it's about the journey, not so much the destination. So Tapasvaji, that's an ashram that we visited, and we will go there in the music in a couple of songs from now. But this is really a song that was inspired by the journey to get there. So one thing about India, it's really big. So it takes a long time to get to a lot of these places that we go because they're not all just right next to each other. So you might be sitting on a bus for four hours, you get to the city that Tapasvaji's ashram is in, but his ashram is four miles out on the countryside somewhere. So you got to figure out how to get to the place where the bus can go to the ashram. And a lot of times the way you get there is a rickshaw. So what you see on the screen, these are different examples of rickshaws. It's kind of like the combination of a lawnmower, a go-kart and a bicycle and you're often just piled into them like a couple people too many you know they comfortably fit maybe two people and we'll oftentimes have like five people crammed into it and you're just darting around all these random streets in India and we have a couple people in go-karts and these rickshaws just all going around everywhere so it feels like absolute madness and they're just weaving in and out of traffic they're honking there's a lot of yelling you don't quite know if they're taking you to the right place. So, this is a moment every time you get in a rickshaw where you just have to sort of embrace the chaos, take a deep breath, relax into it, and then just have that become part of the experience. So, this particular song was inspired by, we were going to the Tapasuji Ashram and the road was closed, so we had to pile in all these rickshaws and we're doing the mad dash going around. They're making U-turns. They're yelling at each other. And our driver just stopped. He didn't say anything or tell us why he was stopping, but he like ran in to go buy a Diet Coke or something and just left us all in the rickshaw. And there's five of us. We're all piled in each other's laps. And there was just something about the engine, which has this very specific, like percussive hum to it, um, that just really captured this very special moment in this rickshaw. So I recorded the rickshaw sound and the sound you'll hear at the beginning of the song is our actual rickshaw. And there was just something about that that just became the soundtrack to this adventure, getting to this ashram. And the song will kind of follow that same progression. So it starts out very chaotic, you'll hear a lot of drums, very frenetic, and then the strings kind of come in and that's that moment when you relax into it. And once we got out of the city streets, we started going up this windy road that started leading up into the hillsides. And you just get this view over the city and it's kind of like taking this very deep breath. And then it's that feeling, many of you experienced this, like when you're driving out to the desert or a place of power, like half hour before you get there, you'll feel it in your stomach, like, whoa, something's about to happen, like it's coming. And then the closer you get to these places of power, these places of really intense spiritual energy, you'll just start to feel the energy of that place just open up. So this song kind of follows that progression. Starts out very frenetic. The drums are very central, and over time the drums decrease, the strings increase, and you just slowly relax into this moment. So without further ado, we'll focus on the navel. This is Rickshaw Ride to Tapasujis.

0:31:16
Naval. This is Rickshaw Ride to Tapasujis. the the the the the the the the the the the the so so Very nice. The next song on our adventure is called Sparsa by the Birds. So what is Sparsa? Sparsa is a resort that we stay at in South India in the city of Tirumalam. Sambar mentioned it earlier, it was where Ramana Maharshi spent most of his life. Very holy city within India. And it's also the city that Arunachala is located in.

0:33:49
So the spiritual mountain center that we learned about last time. So wonderful place in general, but Sparsa is this magical paradise oasis within Tiruvannamalai. So you know the city is very active city, there's tons of stuff going on, a lot of noise, a lot of energy and momentum, and walking into Sparsa is like walking into, like suddenly you're in Hawaii in the middle of India. So these pictures on the side, like this is what sparsa looks like. There's just these palm trees and these luscious greens everywhere. And so it's this unbelievable relaxation still energy. And the other thing about sparsa, which is why it's called By the Birds, is that there is more birds here than I've ever heard in my entire life. It was like, number two, it was a resort, but number one it was like a bird sanctuary because It's just constantly this present present overwhelming sound of birds So it's kind of like as if birds had opened up a hotel that humans could stay at that was a little bit of the vibe of sparsa I'm including this in the middle. This is the sign right when you get to sparsa and that you see of all their activities So there's like spiritual things and there's yoga. There's this one on the bottom, parrot astrology. So you could actually go in Sfarsa and go to this place and this guy would have a parrot that would come out and he would pull tarot cards and give you a reading. So this place is very, very tuned into birds is what I'm trying to communicate. So the inspiration of this song, we did this thing because a month before our India trip, we started, we expanded the music team, and a lot of the newer students at the time joined the music team. So when I was in India, I would create these, I called them dimensional briefs, right? Send them some pictures, I would record some things on my phone, just things that communicated, here, here's what it's like to be in the place. And I would send this to the team for them to generate ideas, and we would start to compile what would become these songs. So the sounds of Sparsa, the dimensional brief I sent for this one was, think a lot of birds, and I sent a recording of some of the birds. There's these very distinct wire brooms that they would use to sweep the sidewalks, and it sounded like the Zazen song, Mountain Winds, on the Morning Enlightenment, I think it's track six,

0:37:11
where there's this little,

0:37:12
ch-ch-ch-ch-ch-ch-ch-ch-ch-ch-ch. There was something very similar to that energy and that song actually that just felt a lot like this place. So I just sent this like very loose outline of birds, brooms, there's kind of some drum sounds and Gary in the Hungarian song, one of our musicians, sent back this just beautiful, beautiful song that just brought in all those elements and actually took a lot of inspiration from the Mountain Wind song. So you'll hear it in that little broom drum beat. You'll also hear it in the flute sound that we used. One of the things I learned meeting with Bodhi from the original music sangha is they used this keyboard called a Roland D-50 to use a lot of their sounds. We actually used that same keyboard to generate this flute sound that is also the same flute sound in Mountain Wind. So even though the song ended up a little different, it takes a lot of inspiration both dimensionally and sound-wise from Mountain Wind. So, without further ado, this is Sparsa by the Birds. We're switching to the heart, so we'll focus on the heart for this song.

0:38:26
Thank you. the the the the Thank you. the the the the the the the the the the the so you Lovely. So our last stop on our journey today is the Da Mantra Cafe. So also in the city of Tiruvannamalai, so just down the street from Sparsa.

0:41:03
This song follows a rich tradition of meditation songs inspired by restaurants. So one of the beautiful lessons, the longer you're around and on the path, is that we work a lot with dimensions, right? You can meditate on dimensions, you can experience certain dimensions, you can reflect certain dimensions in your yoga, and you can also eat the dimensions. So there's something very particular and specific about restaurants and that focus and care and attention and heart that you can infuse into the food. It's actually very similar to what we're doing with the music. So you'll find on our albums a lot songs about restaurants and pro tip for someone who's been around for a while, if you ever get the opportunity to go out for a meal, a sambara, take it. So the Daal Mantra Cafe, we ate there a couple of times and maybe only our trip went here. This was a relatively new place when we visited last March. But it was a restaurant that was started by students of another enlightened teacher, different lineage entirely, but they did part of their yoga and their practice was they would start vegan restaurants and open them up all around the world. So we found out about this restaurant because Ganganath, as he does, struck up a conversation with someone at the airport who turned out to be a documentary filmmaker who had made a film about this enlightened teacher and knew of this cafe in Tirum Enamalai which happened to be the place that we were going and we arrived at the Da Mantra Cafe and there's something really cool about restaurants and eating especially in power trips because sometimes the pace of these and especially in India trips It's very intense. You're in place to place to place to place you travel you're in the rickshaw, you're sleeping, not that much, you're just going going going going. So a lot of times when you sit down and have a meal and we're having this meal together, it's kind of the point when you can actually take it all in a little bit. Oftentimes people are sharing their experiences, you get this wonderful communal benefit and joy of people just being in the moment and reflecting on their experience. Very similar to the stories of gratitude that we just heard. You know, there's something that opens up for everyone, because everyone's just in this very beautiful, happy place. So, this song has a lot to do with about those infusion of dimensions, and this is also a contribution from the Newer Music team. So, right before the trip, I sent everyone on the new team just a list of these places and inspiration pictures, and I'm like, just start focusing on these places and, you know, use that as inspiration for what we're going to do. And Jameson had, came with this song, almost pretty much the version we're going to hear now, like this complete song that was just totally beautiful. And he said his inspiration was man playing flute on a hill. And as soon as he said that, this picture on the left was the picture that flashed in my mind. This is the view of Arunachala that you have sitting in the Dhammantra Cafe. You like look up from your table and look right and that's the view. You're just overlooking Arunachala and this huge amazing power place. And there's just something about this inspiration like this is just a connection that it made and especially in the way that he used textures to fuse the song together. He uses these very interesting beautiful sounds that kind of become these layers in the song. It's just very structurally similar to using good ingredients and flavors in food that complement each other and bring them together. So, Jameson was the main contributor of this song, and then also Raquel on the music team went in and added another layer, a little bit of additional seasoning, where she went to her studio and just recorded a couple of very small background sounds. So you'll hear in some places a rain stick, a very gentle sound. She used a couple of Tibetan bowls that just have this very faint glimmer, but they just add this beautiful, like, perfect seasoning on top of an already very elegant dish, and that is the song that became the Dal Mantra Cafe. So this is another song on the heart, so we'll focus on the heart and end our journey in India today on the Dham Mantra Cafe.

0:46:05
Oops. Thank you. the the the the the the the the the the the so Thank you very much. It was wonderful meditating with you all. I look forward to sharing more India with you all.

0:50:01
I look forward to sharing more India with you soon. Thank you for your wonderful stories and thank you Chi for amazing, wonderful teachings on the music of enlightenment. Those were very beautiful stories. And like, I tell stories all the time in my teachings. And when you can connect to a teaching through a story, you connect to the heart of the spiritual experience. And this is what ignites us. So when Thukhi and Patala and Sarasvati were teaching, they were teaching through a story, which is an experience in their lives. And it's something that just brings light and awareness to us. So I give teachings, but I also want my advanced students to teach. So Leela and Ra were going through this teaching cycle, but they yielded this time. Not because they didn't have something to teach. They definitely had something to teach. But because they were focusing on their career development. So Ra is going for his first tech job. Leela, at the time, at the very beginning of the coronavirus shutdown, her company let go of all consultants. You're all fired, which is like, oh, that's a difficult time.

0:52:05
But she focused on it

0:52:08
and she got another contract just recently,

0:52:12
but she had to focus on it. And that's why she couldn't give a teaching this time because she needed to focus on her work, her foundation. Now in the intermediate and advanced teaching she's going to be teaching about it because there are some people who got laid off because of the coronavirus. Like technologists, companies say, oh we're afraid and we cut off the contractors. So she's going to be teaching about how to get a job as a technologist, as a UI programmer, Salesforce programmer in this world, in the Corona-pocalypse. So they're doing the right thing by focusing on these things. And Tuki is doing well and her teaching was very beautiful. Teaching through a story of her experience is very powerful, very beautiful. It accumulated to what brought her spiritual name. And then Patala's teaching is, this is the teaching of what we do. We help each other out. And when you help each other, when we help each other out, we become stronger. Ahimsa is stronger for helping Patala. And Patala is stronger for being helped and for helping someone else. And now Ahimsa is focusing on helping Devon in Bodhi Woods. He went to help his mother on the East Coast when she was ill, and then he got the corona lockdown and now he's back. And she is helping him to come back to the study. And that's a great thing.

0:54:34
So, Devan, I want you to do what Patala did—

0:54:39
succeed.

0:54:40
Wake up, succeed, and help others. So, you know, Sarsapartha is teaching, too. It's a teaching through a story of her experience, to experience good things. And then her motivation is to share it, to help others. This is what we do. My teacher taught me good things. It helped me. And so I share it. And it's amazing. It makes people's lives change. And it makes empowerment and enlightenment happen. For It's a concrete truth. So music. This music was amazing, beautiful. Thank you Chi for such a wonderful teaching and introduction to these songs. It's really strong. We have our music yoga Where the people on the music yoga have years of experience To be able to make a song to write a song doesn't mean that you have a couple years of like a Piano playing means that you've really invested yourself in music. I grew up, luckily my mother got me involved in music at a very young age, I think four or five, I was playing the recorder,

0:56:35
boop, boop, boop, boop, boop,

0:56:37
and then the clarinet, and then my favorite instrument in the universe, the oboe, besides the harp, which I don't play. So, you know, like, to be able to make music for meditation, the music yogis have trained for a long time. So the songs that we hear are very, very, very rich, very, very, very magical, because you have to have the impeccability to write a song, and you also have to have a selflessness to let go of the ego. And working in a group, in a band, is a little tricky, but to feel the place. This is our mystical practice of, you know, experiencing music, writing music, to be able to make feeling come through you. song, the little rickshaw, right? It's not just a rickshaw, because the rickshaws are, it's a classic funny thing, you know, you get in the little car, the little weird thing, and you go from one place to another. But this song was about going to see a very special spiritual place. Tapasvachi's ashram, his retreat. So, it's not just about going into, you know, a rickshaw, because you can go all around Bangalore in a rickshaw all day, and it ain't fun. But if you're going through Bangalore, and you're going out to Tapaswaji's spiritual retreat, you are a pilgrim. You're going through all of the world and all the craziness of the world, and you're going to a spiritual place, to Tapaswaji's retreat, where he has this one little room where he sat in Samadhi for days and weeks and had so many powerful spiritual experiences. And when you sit in his room, you feel his energy, his enlightened energy. So I would say that the rickshaw song is a beautiful song because it's the song of the pilgrim on the way to enlightenment and it's a beautiful thing. And then we come to Sparsa. Sparsa is so beautiful. That was a very wonderful song. And Sparsa is this, I would say, an oasis in a very, very wonderful place. most beautiful, comfortable space. And the birds are wonderful. We have the parrot that reads your future. And it's just really a lovely place and a lovely experience. So we go on, when we're in Tear of Anomaly, we go on these amazing adventures, seeing these great masters going to these wonderful places of spirit and power, and we come back to this wonderful, relaxing place. It's really, really a beautiful experience.

1:00:50
Sparsa.

1:00:51
Yeah.

1:00:52
No smoking, no alcohol, no meat.

1:00:55
It's just a place of pure veganism without being vegan. Yeah, it's really wonderful. So we've had very, very, very high experiences there. We've had meditations there, we've had Dharma talks there, we lived and loved. It's a very beautiful place. But yes, the birds are wonderful. And I also have to mention that now, so we're here in the Dharma Villa. We're on the edge of the Portola Valley State Park, and we hear lots of birds. So in the mornings, you hear the birds singing a lot. And you're like, wow, the birds are louder. But they're not. I heard a wonderful story on NPR.

1:02:00
The birds are not louder.

1:02:02
Because they did a study of the birds before the coronavirus lockdown, and then they tested after. So when there used to be lots of cars driving around and airplanes, the birds actually had to yell to a little bit louder to try to make themselves known and now the birds are actually quieter because they don't have to compete with an airplane. And so the birds are actually quieter but we hear them more. Society is becoming a little bit more still so we can hear nature. And that brings us to the third song and there was this great American He was previously incarnate in India, but he was born in America. And a great teacher in the 70s and 80s, Adidas Amrash. And he taught his students a beautiful yoga of, you know, like, restauranting. Preparing food for others. And when we were in Tiruvannamalai, we went to, we're in India, in an American teacher's restaurant doing Indian yoga. So these Westerners are yoga for us in terms of serving us. And as we sat in this restaurant we could look and see this holy mountain, Tiruvannamalai. And this mountain is beautiful, wonderful, very very high spiritual place. And sitting there in the restaurant we had this beautiful view. And so the music was very beautiful, a very good feeling of this place of power, of spirituality, and also of karma yoga, of offering. So these three songs are very, very, very beautiful. They're songs of dharma, of yoga, of light. So they're real living songs of experience, spiritual experience. So I'd like to thank you. And next week it's going to be intermediate and advanced students, and then going to be starting the intermediate transmissions. So the first one is going to be the teaching transmission. There's a couple levels of that. We'll see how you do.

1:05:28
We can go all the way. And there's advanced transmissions also for teaching. So, my advanced students have most of the advanced teachings and will do the rest of them. And the intermediate teachings are very powerful. Remember Patala's story of Ahimsa? Ahimsa had the intermediate teachings of transmission. So she was able to help someone in such a powerful way. And you don't have to bunk in a roommate with the person you're helping, but if you do even the beginning intro teachings, or you put someone on the pathway to enlightenment, So, I'm going to give the intermediate students, the new intermediate students, transmissions for the advanced students. So, we're on a wonderful journey. Wonderful journey. And just like the first song, if you're just learning technology, and you're just getting on the rickshaw. It's a harrowing adventure. Have you ever been on Mr. Toad's Wild Ride in Disneyland? That's what the rickshaw is like. And at first it seems, whoa, crazy, oh, I'm going to die, and oh, how are we all stuffed in here? And then it brings you to a beautiful place. So if you're just beginning your pilgrimage in technology, bright livelihood, job yoga, the way to stay on the path, then good. Do it. Go through it. Go through Mr. Toad's Wild Ride. Go through the rickshaw. And it'll bring the temple of enlightenment. Thank you all so much. Be well. I'll see the intermediate and advanced students next week and the rest of you the week after. Okay, oh, men's and women's meditation begins in ten minutes and otherwise I would say cheers Okay, oh, men's and women's meditation begins in ten minutes and otherwise I would say cheers big ears. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
