0:00:00
So, when you are able to have clear seeing of your mind and the potential for great results of dharma through practice, through bodhicitta, you also become very clear on what creates those feelings and thoughts, where does that attachment come in, to who you are. Ego cherishing, ego clinging. This is identification with your limited self, with the finite aspect of your being. And when there is an identification with the finite aspect of being, that's when there's suffering. So when you can see your mind clearly, you can see the potential for the Dharma, but you can also be very clear on the fact that suffering comes from the ego. So this brings us to one of the Lojong teachings. It is a slogan that states, All Dharma has a single purpose. This means that any spiritual teaching has a single purpose, and that is to lessen your grasp on ego clinging, to let go of ego cherishing, and to relinquish egotism. So whether it's a Jnana Yoga teaching, a karma yoga teaching, any kind of spiritual teaching, zen, any spiritual teaching, any book that you read, Taoism, any ism, any spiritual teaching should direct you to letting go of this grasp on the ego. So this is the single purpose of any spiritual teaching. Now, there are some spiritual practices that have powerful but don't actually deal with letting go of egotism. So there's different practices of power, magic, sorcery. There's different practices of like breathing that give you powerful internal energies. There's practices of martial arts, practices of the astral arts. And these can be practices that you do just to develop powers, abilities, different states of consciousness. But they don't necessarily teach liberation. In fact, in these arts, having a bigger ego sometimes makes you better at the art. So these are not Dharma teachings, unless they're Dharma teachings. I remember a time where I was talking to an older student of my teacher, he was very into magic. We call it ceremonial magic. So he had studied it very deeply and he became proficient in doing magical things. So he came to see my teacher once because his girlfriend was into it. And he was like, eh, I'll go see this guy. And then he saw my teacher. My teacher is a master of the cities, so he can do very, very magical things. And when this magician saw my teacher, he saw that my teacher's magical abilities were much stronger than his. So after seeing him, he went over to him and said, I want to learn the magic that you know. And Buddhist magic is very different than, you know, the spooky sorcery that people do. And so, my teacher laughed. And then my teacher said, Okay, I'll teach you, but you have to give up all this magic that you're doing, and you have to give up the self altogether. And then this guy was like, why would I want to do that? I've learned all these cool, magical things. How I can get power over people, get them to do what I want. How I could go into different dimensions and command different beings and things like that. Summon beings and have them do my bidding. And then he's like, why would I give that up? I mean, I could do all this cool stuff. It's all magical. And then my teacher said, because it makes you miserable. And then he walked away. And then this guy thought about it for a long time. And he was like, he looked at everything that he had learned and it gave him some kind of feeling of energy and power, but it definitely did make him more and more not happy. He recognized this during his course of learning. He came into the learning of magic, kind of happy and optimistic, and he got all salty. He got salty. And he ended up being kind of a magical curmudgeon. And then from this, seeing this, this master was much stronger in magic. He, he said, Wow, you know, he's right. These magical things that I've learned make me miserable. And somehow maybe there's this other magic, this Buddhist magic, I can learn that and not be miserable. So he told me a story of how he started on the path. And he was very, very interested in learning the magical things that my teacher showed us, demonstrated to us. And then eventually he gave up all of his old magic and then he didn't even have a desire to learn the new Buddhist magic. He was just happy at that point. So he had been in a practice that didn't have liberation, just had power. And then when he came to the path of liberation, then he was able to give up the self that wanted power. And then he was happy. So this is good. This is good. So sometimes there's also perfect teachings, and they're perfect teachings, like the Buddhist teachings are perfect teachings. If you follow the Buddhist teachings, you let go of the self, you know a greater truth. There's the teachings of Atisha, who brought Bodhisitta to Tibet, and his teachings are perfect teachings, teachings of liberation. So there are many great teachers who created systems of teaching that are very, very, very helpful and enlightening. But sometimes the students don't follow the teachings properly and therefore they get stuck. Even though the teachings are perfect, the students are working on it. So sometimes students will get confused about teachings. They'll be like, oh, I get it. It's kind of hard to figure out, right? Like meditation. Sit there, stop, talk. And you go, how do I do it? I keep thinking. So but after some practice, over time, you see that you might still, it's like, oh, OK. I see some progress. But in the beginning, it could be very confusing. Or maybe students get very confused about bodhicitta, like the practice of taking and sending. So the student will be like, oh, see I thought I was supposed to inhale their light and then give them my darkness. That felt good to me. Yeah, no, no, it's the other way around. Oh, I see. Okay. Sometimes students get confused about what should be a very simple teaching. But when the mind gets in the way, all that thought and ego clinging and things like that, it doesn't want to do it, so it starts to modify its karma. It's true. You don't get it when the self starts to react. I know it's funny, but it totally happens. We want to understand the teachings as clear as possible and to practice them in a very pure way, and not in a way where we start overthinking it, because that will cause a lot of confusion. Now, the worst place is where a student will take the teachings and will become selfish in the teachings. This is where they'll take perfect teachings by the Buddha, for example, and then they'll make it all about yourself, you start to kind of twist the tea chains and you don't get those liberating results. So, it's like someone could be like, oh look, I could sit in full lotus. No one else can. My legs are more flexible. And you go, wow, that's special. Or you say, oh yes, I sat in meditation for four hours. I did it. I nailed it in 40 minutes. I nailed a four hour meditation in 40 minutes. things like that, or, I have reached a higher state. When you're doing that, then your Dharma practice is useless and meaningless for liberation. Because what you're doing is you're taking a practice that should create enlightenment and you're making it all about you, so it doesn't create enlightenment. So this goes against what the purpose of all dharmas is. It starts to get developing the self into practice instead of getting the self out of being because of the practice. And then you say, but I'm making so much progress. I have this new practice I am doing. I'm reading this new spiritual book that I think is good. I have gotten this new level of realization that I like. My realization. Right? So this is a very dangerous thing in spirituality, especially if you have a talent to have seeing or a talent to have higher states of consciousness and meditation. The moment you get some advanced sign or goal or achievement, if you say, this is me, then what you're doing is you're starting off with an ego, and then you're going on the spiritual path, and with your achievements you make spiritual ego. Spiritual ego goes very big. And then it becomes insurmountable, because the spiritual path, which should undo the ego, got... got scallywagged, we call it. The ego ended up trumping the spiritual path. And I do mean trump. So this is very dangerous when you're practicing spirituality and you let your ego in and your ego starts to define your spirituality is no longer spiritual, it is the spiritual ego. Then you say, you meditate and you go, I am quite the spiritual Dharma person, if I do say so myself. And then you say, you know, you just get into this thing where everything is you. And you find that you started off walking on the spiritual path and then you later found that the ego is walking on the spiritual path. And then there's no more spiritual path and there's just ego. So this is very, very dangerous. So when you have a good meditation, it doesn't define who you are. If you have some sort of realization or some spiritual experience, it doesn't define the self. The whole point is to observe from your practices of dharma less self, less ego This is the biggest trick of the ego to say, I'm making progress. There's got to be some deeper insight where you say, well, I got to let go of that consideration. Because any practice of Dharma should make you less ego cleaning, less cherishing of yourself. You're going to end up being a spiritual narcissist. You know, just always looking at yourself and thinking how wonderful you are, having a spiritual experience and saying, ah, that's me. And then everything, you know, the whole spiritual world revolves around you. That's very, very dangerous. You can't do that. Yeah, so, you'll be like, my friends called me a narcissist. I know it should make me angry, but I love it when they talk about me. Or, my psychiatrist told me I'm a narcissist. I told him to shut up while I'm talking. This is what narcissists do. Or, I used to be a narcissist, but look at me now. So when you Maybe people have to acknowledge you as being special or higher, or you're in a position of power, in a hierarchy, where you feel, I'll do what I feel like. You know, if you have this feeling of entitlement, this is spiritual narcissism. And what you need to do if you recognize that you have any of these traits is you have to come back to true practice. When you throw yourself into practice, then the self starts to dissolve. When you practice bodhicitta, this is an amazing practice if you are authentic in your desire to take and send. So when you have this true intent to see someone suffering and to really take it, and then to send them your light, this is the opposite of egotism. Egotism is a contraction of self. When we open up to take someone's hardship and give them our light, that's the opposite of the ego. But if you have a twist on that, and you do it so that you are intellectually like, yeah, I get it, I got it, yeah, taking and studying, sure, got it, no big deal. But you don't honestly do it from your heart, then you're going to be in the waiting room So it's very, very important to come into true practice. And in meditation, this is where we come to see our mind in a very true way. We look at the mind, we sit there with the mind, directing our focus on the chakra, trying to still our thoughts, and what arises? Thoughts, feelings, visions, right? These things arise and then we let them go. We let them go. And we're coming to an understanding of where it all starts, where there's that affliction, where there's that ego clinging. And from meditation, with with a true desire to just stop thought, then the clinging of the self lets go and then those thoughts don't come up all over the place. So true practice of the Dharma will bring you beyond this narcissism of spirit. So long ago in China, there was a prince and at a young age he was given a hand mirror. They didn't have a lot of mirrors back then I guess. So he was given a hand mirror and he was like, wow, I'm so handsome. I'm so wonderful. And so he would look at himself all the time and he would see all the jewels around the frame and look at himself and be like, okay. And then he grew older and he was always looking in the mirror and always judging other people by, you know, himself so beautiful, other people not. So he got into this way of looking at things like that. Then his father was getting older and said, it's time for you to marry. There's this lovely princess from one of our allied states. And then she comes to the court, he looks at himself, and he looks at her and goes, no, no, no, I can't marry her. I'm more beautiful than she. And then the father is like, hmm. And then they bring him food. And he stops eating because he looks at himself and goes, looks at the food and says, oh, no, no, no, I can't eat that. That doesn't So he starts getting weak. And then there's some problem with the southern neighbor, and the generals come, and the king says, okay, prince, you've got to start learning this stuff, because warfare is important to the nation. It's an art of war reference. And so he comes in, he looks at all these generals, and looks at himself and goes, oh, I can't deal with these people, they're too ugly. And he walks out. So he's just going away from everything. So his father goes and speaks to the great Taoist master, tells him the problems. Taoist master says, okay, I'll come see your son. So Taoist master comes into the royal court and he walks over. The king says, please, meet with the wise one. And then the son looks at him, looks at himself and goes, oh no, I can't meet with this old man. He's horribly ugly. And then the Taoist master grabs his mirror, runs over to a fireplace in the court, and throws the mirror into the fireplace. And then the prince is in shock. He's like, oh! So he's in shock for a little bit. He runs over, and then he tries to get it out, but the flames are too hot. So he calls over the guards, and he's like, okay, use your swords and spears and get it out of there. So they sit there poking it for a while, and they can't get it out. And then they're all, oh, he's like, somebody get it out. And they're all, ah, we can't do it. Then he goes, oh, send, you know, to the kitchen, bring a large basin of water, many large basins of water. So someone runs to the kitchen, a little while later, they come back with the water, pour it in, and eventually they Then he gets his mirror back, cleans it off, all the ashes and the soot, and then he looks at himself, and in the fire, the mirror became warped. So then he looks at himself, and he's hideous. He's like, I look crazy. Something wrong, what's wrong with me? And then he goes to his room and sits there crying for a month, but often looking at himself and crying more, then he just comes to understand that that's the way life is, that he was once beautiful and now he's ugly. So then he starts eating food again because food is more beautiful than him. And then he marries the princess because she's way more beautiful than him. And he starts interfacing with the generals, learning the art of war because they're more beautiful than him. So he learned this way of looking at life, and then he continued with it when they've changed. Finally the Taoist master comes to talk to him, and he looks at the Taoist master, looks at himself, and goes, okay, I'll speak with you, sure, please, please come. And then Taoist master says, don't judge life from this mirror. He takes it away. And he says, you need to judge life from your heart. But in the story, he points at his stomach, but he says, your heart, you have to judge it from your heart. So then he says, oh, okay. And the Master teaches him to meditate, to still his mind. And so he follows the teachings, And then as he starts to take steps into governing, whenever he sees things, he doesn't look at it from a point of view of the warped mirror or the unwarped mirror, the good or the bad. He sees clearly from a place of still mind. And when he makes his decisions, he makes a decision from his heart, stomach. He's all, I had a ham sandwich. Okay, everything's good. So he makes decisions from his heart. And when he makes decisions from his heart, he does just things. And he becomes the king, and then his whole kingdom prospers. So when So, when we are seeing life from the way of the ego, the self, then we're always seeing life in a wrong way. We want to see life from a place of clear seeing, proper discernment, spiritual discrimination. And then we want to act from there, but we want to act in a way that has balance. So this is important. You have to recognize when you are acting from selflessness. And you have to esteem to act selflessly. So we get out of spiritual narcissism, spiritual egotism, and we get clear about spiritual practice. And then we take actions to help others. We consider the thoughts, feelings, concerns of others, and we take our spiritual advancement of whatever sort we're at, whether it be lowly or high, and we use our clearer mind, our greater capacity for compassion, to help other people. So there was a business documentary that I saw that I thought was really wonderful. So there was this fellow who went to business school and got really good grades. And he then came out to help small business owners improve their business in creative ways. So he went to an electronics store. until they created a Best Buy about a mile away. And then he was selling TVs and DVD players

0:29:42
or whatever they have.

0:29:43
And so he's just selling electronics, just like these big box electronics stores. So there's this one in America called Best Buy. They sell refrigerators, washing machines, televisions, stereos. And then they had a very key thing that won business over. They have a Best Buy price guarantee. And this states, if you could show them an advertisement, you know, in a newspaper, of a business that is selling the same product for less, they guarantee you that price. So this businessman had a neat idea. He said, okay, here's what we're going to do. We're going to take your most expensive item, 56-inch flat screen TV that normally costs like $5,000. And he said, we're going to sell it for $1. Okay, so we're gonna sell it for $1, we're gonna put it in ads and in flyers, therefore it will be properly advertised. And then we're going to hire a bunch of people the same day to go in and show the advertisement in the newspaper and the flyers and to buy all of their same TVs for one dollar and then you get those TVs and then you can sell them at a huge discount and still make a lot of money. This was his That's what they did. He took his eight or ten TVs that he was selling, put on a sticker that said $1. They put advertisements out, flyers out, all over the city. And then they knew people were going to see the ad, so the businessman said, okay, we have to kind of make a couple barriers to them actually buying your whole stock because then you would be out of your stock, you'd be out of money. So he said, okay, here's what we're going to do. There was a back room, so they put all of those widescreen televisions in the back room. So they're all in the back room. And then they put a false wall between the main floor and the back room, and they made a little door. It was like only two feet wide, less than a meter wide and tall. And then between that door and the actual TVs, they put an eight-foot long alligator. Okay, so you go through the little door, and then before you can open the other door, it was a glass door, you see an alligator, and then behind it is the TV. So that's what they did. Okay, so then the day of the promotion, there's people lining up out of his door because they saw the advertisement, and they all come in when the door opens, and then the businessman says, oh wow. So the businessman and the owner, they're both wearing tuxedos. And then the businessman sees all these people come in in jeans and t-shirts, and he points out a store policy sign. And the store policy is that you must have the proper attire. So he's like, you have to wear a fine suit and a tie, or perhaps a tuxedo or a ballgown. And the customers got really upset. And they were like, you didn't say that in the ad. And they said, it's just our store policy. So they're all mad, so they all leave. But then this one guy comes back. He rented a tuxedo. And he goes, oh, OK, come into the store. And then he lets him in the store, and he's like, oh, good, it's nice to see you, this is the right way to do business. And the guy's like, okay, where's my dollar TV? He goes, right through that door. So this is a big guy, and yet he fits, he opens that little door, and he fits through it. Gets through the door, then he stands up, looks through the glass door, sees the TVs, and sees the alligator. And he's like, and he thinks about it for a while. Then he's like, nah, I can't do this. So then he leaves. He just leaves. Okay, later on, a woman comes back in a ball gown. Same thing, she goes to the little door, stands up, screams once she sees the alligator, and leaves. So then the businessman is like, all right, this is great. Nobody went through it. All right, so meanwhile, the businessman hired a bunch of people to take the ads to go to Best Buy. So they go to Best Buy and they say, hey look, here's an ad for this TV for a dollar, so I wanna buy this TV for a dollar. And Best Buy said, no. And then they said, what about your price guarantee? And then they just said, well not in this case. And then they said, that's like, you can't publicize that there's a guarantee and then take it back when you feel like it. And they said, there's no way we're going to give you these TVs for a dollar. So they come back, they tell the businessman, and the businessman says, all right, you know what? Now it's time to sue Best Buy. That's the only way, because they can't publish, this is illegal for them to publicize this and then not honor it. Apparently it's not illegal to put an alligator between the customer and, but anyway, so he decides that he's gonna, he calls his lawyer, he's gonna sue Best Buy and all this stuff. And the lawyer says, well, Best Buy has a lot of lawyers who are smart, and then they could turn back on your business and actually find all sorts of reasons to sue you, or to sue the business owner. And so the businessman says, I can't let this wonderful guy get sued by Best Buy. And so he thinks and thinks and, you know, researches and he finds a solution. He said, okay, so in the case that Best Buy comes back pointing fingers at him and wants going to get a clinical psychologist to write an affidavit that he's mentally insane. And then if Best Buy points at him for doing something wrong, and I can give that affidavit of insanity, then he's off the hook. So he's like, okay, great, got this all figured out. So he goes over to the store owner of the little shop and says, hey, we gotta go do just a regular routine exam just, you know, cause we're gonna go after Best Buy and we have to, you know, have an exam for your mental competence. And he goes, oh, OK, sure. So they go to a clinical psychologist. And then the businessman walks in to meet the psychologist. And he says, I'm really concerned about my friend. And she's like, OK, so tell me what's going on. And then he says, well, I mean, he believes that he owns a small electronics store and that he's been like working there for like 15 years. And she's like, oh, okay. So it's kind of like making up things delusional. And then he says, he has quite an imagination. So he doesn't actually lie or anything. And then he walks out. Then they both come in and she meets the store owner and she says, so tell me about yourself. And he's like, well, okay. I work at my electronics store. I sell these things. I've been working there for 15 years. That's pretty much my whole life, and I love doing it. Been struggling for a while. And then the businessman, and she's like, okay. Then the businessman leans in and says, tell her about the alligator. And he goes, oh yeah, okay, so we did this promotion where we're selling $5,000 TVs for $1 and so that the customers would, you know, well, you know, we put them in the back and then we put an alligator there and a small door and also we had them wear tuxedos. And so he's telling her this tale and she's like, oh, wow. So then afterwards, the businessman speaks to her and goes, so what do you think? She's like, this guy is totally delusional. She goes, and he says, can I have an affidavit from you about that? And she's like, absolutely. This guy is crazy. So this was a keen businessman with a creative idea to help somebody. He used his creative marketing to help someone. And then when it became a condition where the guy might get in trouble, he cared for him and found a way where he couldn't get in trouble. So this is a true story. But yeah, this is a real documentary and it's also funny. But it's a guy using his business acumen to help someone and to care that they don't get into trouble. So this is important because, you know, We have a saying in my country, America first. That's not a good thing. But we have another saying, America first, but before that, me. We want to let go of that, right? We want to be selfless in how we deal with people. Deal with people at work, deal with people in play, deal with people who are our friends, family members. We want to have a selflessness and not a me kind of first attitude. The ego always wants the world to have a pandemic, the coronavirus. So we would, you know, because that makes me feel bad. But if I have a world without it, then I feel good. Even if I pretend it's not there, I feel good until I catch it. That's what's going on in America. And we also feel if people do what I want, what I like, then I'll be happy. And if they don't, well then I'll be sad. So in Bodhicitta, we learn to accept, to accept what the world brings us and to deal with it compassionately. And in the case of America, it would be compassionate to stay at home, to do social distancing, and to wear a mask. That would be a compassionate act. And we also learn with people to accept people where they're at. We don't have to push them to do what we want them to do. We can accept where they're at. So bodhicitta is a practice of acceptance. So when you're looking at the proficiency of your mind in Bodhicitta, in the Dharma practices, we don't just look at, okay, I'm completely always mindful of Bodhicitta. That What the condition of your heart is in bodhicitta? what depth of awareness What depth of practice or where are the points in your practice that have? True heart and true spirit where the self goes away Because people who meditate really well might still have very strong egos. But someone who also practices the compassion yoga is really working on the point of all dharmas, that is to let go of of ego cleaning. Final story. In the time of the Buddha, there was a group of monks and they were very dedicated to Buddha's teachings and they meditated for six hours per day. So they would sit and meditate with very strong focus and they would go into very high states of mind into Samadhi. And then there was one, his name was Madhu, and Madhu wasn't so good at meditation. Madhu could only meditate for 30 minutes. So for 30 minutes, he couldn't continue concentration. So then he would stop meditating, and then he would just sit there with all the other monks who were meditating really strong. And Madhu would just look at them and just really feel a lot of love and support for them. And he would say, wow, they're so great to be able to do such long meditation. I'm so inspired by them. I really hope that they attain enlightenment. And he would just sit there thinking these thoughts, watching them for hours and hours

0:45:52
and hours.

0:45:53
And so he felt pretty happy. And then they would solemnly bow and then at the end of the teaching he said, I'm going to bring the most advanced among you with me back to where the bigger Sangha is, an area they call Deer Park. And he said, so I'm going to bring one of you with me and then give some teachings and bring you back. And then there were these kind of, the best meditators were like, oh, I think it's going

0:46:36
to be me.

0:46:37
Then Buddha says, you!

0:46:41
To Madhu.

0:46:42
And then everyone's shocked. Then Madhu's all, what? Me? And the older monks are like, but a venerable sir to Buddha, how can this be? Madhu can't meditate very long. And us, we meditate very strongly when we go into the higher states of consciousness. Buddha said that Madhu is the more spiritually attained because he has selflessness. And he said, you will gain selflessness in your meditation. So your meditation is good, but Madhu just opened his heart and became very, very, very selfless. And so the monks bowed and they went back to their meditation and the next day Buddha and Madhu left. They went to Deer Park and Buddha gave lots of teachings there. Then Buddha and Madhu had become Arhant, enlightened. And then he came, sat with the monks. They were all, wow, Madhu, now you can meditate. And then Buddha gave a teaching. And Buddha taught about not only having high meditation, but also a focus on the selflessness of the heart. And in that, the monks learned a deeper level of meditation, a level that's not just mental, a level of meditation that selflessness and spiritual attainment and then All of the monks meditated, but this new awareness in this teaching and then they all became our haunts so selflessness is a very important dimension of spiritual study if you just become impeccable and powerful Then you could be harmful, and you could be missing liberation. If you just go into high spiritual states, it could be almost intellectual. But then when you come also from the heart, then there's a deeper spiritual realization, And it really gets to the heart of what every Dharma practice is. It comes to the self letting go, getting rid of the ego, going beyond it. So I'd like you to look up towards me, soft focus on the third eye, and in this meditation just let go of the self. Okay, let's begin.

0:50:21
You You so so You leave me so so So Alright, wonderful. So I'm going to have an advanced teaching after this call. So if you're an advanced student, you will get a special Zoom link. We're going to have upcoming...

0:51:51
So this week I'm going to be doing a lot of advanced teachings. And then after this week, we're going to have some upcoming intermediate advanced teachings, there's a lot of transmissions involved. And then the advanced transmissions, and then the intermediate advanced teachings, there's really good high teachings and transmissions. I'll also have some SEVA meetings coming up. So those of you with SEVA points will have some opportunities for teachings. So this is very good. All right, so you guys are making progress in the seven points of mind training. We have reached the fifth point of mind training. We will continue on, but we're getting there. You're going to be, when you get to the seventh point, when you get all of those teachings,

0:56:26
then you have a mastery of OTC.

0:56:28
All right, so thank you all very much. All right, so thank you all very much.

0:56:33
Be well.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
