0:00:00
All right.

0:00:04
My marketing team tells me I can't wear stuff like this. It's too shiny. So I'm all, OK. So I'll just wear it with you guys.

0:00:17
Too shiny.

0:00:17
All right.

0:00:18
So, on the pathway to enlightenment, you should enjoy yourself. I mean, look back to the times where it was really hard, where you had something difficult you were working on. Maybe learning tech, maybe establishing your career, maybe learning martial arts, getting your black belt, stuff like that, right? So think back to those times, they were hard.

0:00:58
It was hard for me.

0:01:00
But, so I look back on learning tech, I was bad at it. Like, almost everybody else learned faster and it was tough. But I persisted and then I learned it, and then I had a fun tech career. But even now, looking back, well, at the time I was a beginner, right? So I was all freaking out. But now when I look back, I'm like, that was a beautiful time. I grew so much by doing something that was hard and something I would have never thought of going into and following the yoga and the dharma of it. So just because something's hard, don't stress out. Enjoy it. As long as you're following the pathway to enlightenment, you know, it's like, what do you want to be? Like everything's going to be the easiest thing, you're never going to learn anything. So enjoy the struggles. Enjoy the hardships. Just make sure that you're on the pathway to enlightenment. Because then the struggles are things that are wonderful and they uplift you and they make you stronger. If you're on the pathway to enlightenment, then the struggles are the Dharma and then it's beautiful. Now, if you struggle through self, if you fall off the path and you're going through doubt, you lose the light, you're confused, you're angry, then all that struggle is profitless struggle. That's struggle with the self. So if you fall off the path and you're just struggling with the self, then yeah, that's suffering. But if you're Milarepa and you're building towers, and it's hard, but it's the story of enlightenment. It's the Dharma. It's very, very beautiful. It's empowering and your story of having a hardship and fighting through it and following the dharma is something that becomes a story that uh inspires others um so milarapa is inspirational to us because he had a hard time it wasn't easy he didn't sit there and go, oh, no problem. He worked hard. It was very, very difficult. And I'm able to give a little bit of inspiration to new students who are struggling learning technology because I was really, like, coming honestly from my heart. I was really bad at it. And I struggled a lot with it. But I never gave up. And then I ended up succeeding and there's a power in that. So even if you have difficulties, whatever they are, as long as you're on the pathway to enlightenment, as long as you keep on coming back to meditation, mindfulness, compassion, you know, all the structures in the school, as long as you keep on the pathway to enlightenment, then all of those things are experiences that lead to wisdom. And so if you're struggling with something, and it's hard, and it's painful, and you feel limited, at the same time as an advanced student, you should be happy in your heart that you have that opportunity. You should be happy that you have to build that tower because that's the best thing. If you go off and do your own thing, you're just going to be in the world of self. It's profitless for your enlightenment. But if you're on the path and it's hard, then enjoy the hardship, because that is your lesson. And through that lesson, you'll gain wisdom, personal power, and you'll gain a greater degree of enlightenment. And you'll be able to share that as your story to help others. So, some of you are very, you know, all or nothing about enlightenment, but in the wrong

0:05:47
way.

0:05:48
You're like, you're like conceptual, you're like, oh, I got the advanced teachings, so now I should get enlightened, otherwise it doesn't work. And then there's something wrong with it or me or whatever you're going. That's very polarizing, it's very self, right? Very yin or yang view. So, it's important to recognize that the Kala teachings are authentic and they are this school's pathway to enlightenment. It's not the only way. It's possible to become enlightened in other ways. But after you've been going to a karate school for 10 years and then you go, oh, I'm just going to pick up some Aikido and get a black belt real quick. You know, a different way kind of doesn't, it's a little more tricky. But in this school, the Kala Chakra is the pathway to enlightenment. And so if you're struggling with the Kala Chakra teachings, if you think, they're wrong, they don't work, I can't do this meditation, then you're just blocking yourself. If it's hard, then enjoy the hardship. But if you say, this meditation doesn't work for me, I can't do this meditation, then you're judging your meditation, which is the beginner's teaching of never judge your meditation. And you're also breaking, you know, the lesson number two of holding yourself back. You say, I will hold myself back from enlightenment because I perceive, I believe, that I can't do the meditation, or that the Kala Chakra teachings don't work. So if you have that condition, don't. Accept that you can be enlightened, don't accept anything else, and do the practice. Because if you do the practice, I can't hear what you're saying when you, I have to make this PG, I was just informed. Certain people who don't know certain things. Anyway, so if you're an advanced student and you're having struggles with the advanced teachings, then you better enjoy it. And if you sit there and go, it doesn't work, I don't like it, then mazel tov.

0:09:00
You know?

0:09:01
Like you can go to a Taekwondo class

0:09:03
and they say, well, you know, in order to get

0:09:05
your black belt you have to do a jumping spin. Okay, that's the rule. And you say, I can't do it, it doesn't work. Of course it works. So enjoy the struggle, enjoy learning how to do it. Work on it until you can do it. It's not impossible. It's possible. But if it's hard, then work on it. But you should work on it with a very positive mind, because you're working on the thing that is the pathway to enlightenment. Because if you go sideways on something else, then there's always sideways, there's always something else. And also as an advanced student, you might be, well, you know, I heard from Sahaja something different. And I'm like, well, fine. I don't care. The difference is probably in your mind. You might have heard different words, but I think that if you're creating differences, you're creating differences in your head. And then what that will do is that will serve to create a block for you. And then you'll say, oh, you know, this doesn't work for me, so I'm gonna try something different. So as they say in the Hago Carry, right? They say, it's bad when one becomes two. So, if you start, like, in your head, start making up, oh, this is different, and now this works and that doesn't. And so, this teacher says this, and so, this says that. So, now what you do is you've broken unity, you've created two different things, where they're actually one. But that happens in your head because you are struggling. Now if you just enjoy the struggle, then you don't have to be so bifurcated. You don't have to be like, it either works or it doesn't. Of course it works. There's been many, many students who became enlightened through these practices. And this is the method of the school. And if you read some book or hear some other teacher say something, then you read a book, you heard some words. If it makes you confused, then you're confusing yourself. So there's something much more powerful about the advanced teachings if you follow them. So it's a very definite practice, but you have to definitely practice. And if you start letting yourself get confused with some other teacher said something, then you're just getting yourself confused. And if the Kala Chakra is hard for you, then enjoy it. Enjoy that it's hard. Like, you know, just take it in. Look at what it is. Accept it. Say, this is hard. And then, what, a year in, year and a half, no, year, year and a half, okay, whatever. You know, and I try to give you, you know, some hints to make your practice stronger and these are good. But, yeah, don't be so all or nothing. If you're going to be all or nothing, you know, you've got to be all or nothing like Lila. Lila is like, she's not sitting there going, conceptually, I would like enlightenment, but it's not happening. You know, all means that you want enlightenment no matter what. What? No matter what. And then what you read in a book, what one teacher says, or another. Eventually, through your practice, you get to a point where you're going to go for it. Where you're going to push beyond all concepts. And you will, nothing can stop you from liberation, if you want it, if you practice. But if you get caught up in like all this dissatisfaction and judging your meditation, then you're at a very beginning level of practice. It's pretty funny. So on the pathway to enlightenment, in Zen, there's this really good thing. On the pathway to enlightenment, if you come across the Buddha, kill the Buddha. So I realize some of you are trying to kill me, which is kind of funny. It's really silly. I have a different take on it from my experience. If you're going for your brown belt, but if you're a brown belt and going for your black belt in karate, kill your sensei. That's, that would be silly, right? Yeah, because your sensei actually is probably more than a black belt and probably third, fourth, fifth grade black belt and can give you a lot of pointers how to get from brown belt to black belt, right? So even though you know the kadas, you've got all the kadas for your black belt test, your sensei probably knows a lot more. Getting your first degree black belt or your primary enlightenment is simple to me. To you it might seem very weird. But I know a lot about it. And I have a lot of pointers, I have a lot of experience. It's kind of like getting your black belt is like, like Rami's talk about the competition black belt. So if you got a black belt, by beating another black belt, he said, that's a real black belt. And, you know, so it's like if you have to, even though you know all your kadas and your forms and your techniques and stuff, if you've got to eventually beat another black belt to get your black belt, then it's not about just knowing the forms. It's about how do I bring up the power? How do I use this for real? How does this become some greater reality than just bouncing around? And that's where a sensei, you might know all this stuff, being a brown belt, but that's where a sensei has a lot more experience. And then you start going, well, the Saikido sensei said I should do this thing, and the Judo sensei said I should do this thing. Well, you're confusing yourself. And if you wish to be confused, there you go. That's a choice.

0:16:56
So yeah.

0:16:59
It is true that if you just sit there and look at an enlightened teacher and say, you are enlightened and I cannot be enlightened, then you won't be. So that's why in Zen they have this funny thing called kill the Buddha. That means to destroy this separation, saying that's enlightenment and I can't be that. But you should just recognize that that's, that shouldn't even be a, you know, a problem in your head. You should recognize that enlightenment is within you. We all have Buddha nature. You have Buddha nature. Everyone in the Sangha has Buddha nature. So it's, you know, if you start worshipping your teacher or Buddha like they're a god, then that's confusion. a master in martial arts or a master in spirituality can help you go through the different levels, even the advanced levels. So you don't have to keep it If it's hard, it's not impossible. Just take the teachings as they are and just honestly apply yourself. And if it's difficult, then it's difficult. That's the way it is. Okay, that's my first point. My second point is something kind of fun. So I've been reflecting on this for a long time and I've seen that this is something something that should happen, that's going to happen. And I think I'll have more seeing into it up at Shasta, but I am definite on this direction already. And this is what I to Europe. So America is doing a horrible job with the coronavirus. There's no central leadership. Every state is doing things differently, every county differently, and Americans are ridiculous. I don't want to wear a mask. I'm going to Ruby Tuesdays. I'm going to TGI Fridays. Applebee's, that's why. I'm going to Applebee's. And I'm going to cough all over the place. So Americans got to get what they want right now without anyone saying no. That's what we were taught as Americans. So we've got to go cough our way to Applebee's. Yeah, and then like Manhattan, they got hit with the virus. So they had to close down Manhattan. That's huge. Then somewhere in like Georgia or Jacksonville, Florida or something, people are going to Applebee's and coughing on each other. And then someone drives up to Manhattan the next day. And then Manhattan closes down again. So I mean, like, it's just like, America doesn't have like, we're still in our first wave because the wave is going. We're like a washing machine.

0:21:49
That's the kind of wave we're going in.

0:21:51
Circular wave, forever wave. It's like a tsunami that just keeps going. That's America. So America's not doing a good job. So you know, so you gotta be more and more and more careful with your masks and gloves and social distancing because Americans are getting sloppier. So for the foreseeable future, probably, you know, six months to a year, America is going to have a lot of trouble with the pandemic. Now, they're saying maybe in late October, they can come out with a vaccine. That would be great. But once the vaccine comes out, you want to watch for a while, maybe six months or more, to see how the people who got on the vaccine are doing, just make sure they didn't turn into zombies,

0:22:53
something like that.

0:22:54
And then once you see that the people who got the vaccine are doing well, then you go, oh, okay, it does make sense to do it. That's what I would recommend. That's what I'm gonna do. So while America is going through this very weird process, Europe has been very sensible and intelligent about how they managed the coronavirus. You know, Italy got hit bad, Spain a little bit, right? You know, so it did hit, but they did the right things organizationally to slow the curve, right? And so, you know, so Europe did it intelligently, right? As did China, right? So China, it started there, it grew big, they handled it right, and then now it's like not there anymore, and that's a big country. So, you know, it's like if the country handles things right, then it becomes a safer place, safe place. So, I call this the Euro mission because next year what I'd like to do is I'd like to go to Europe for one big reason. In Europe, I can go and support the European sanghas. So, I can go to Iceland, Paris, Munich, Vienna, Budapest, and I could support the groups there in person. And that would be helpful for especially the new cities. So in America, I cannot sit with a sangha in person. Unless we're like up on Mount Shasta, you know, far apart. But we can only do that once in a while. So in Europe, I'll be able to sit with the Hungarian Sangha you know, weekly,

0:25:01
unless I'm going to, you know,

0:25:03
Paris or Munich or Vienna or Iceland. So I'll be able to actually go probably, you know, two or three days a month to each of the cities in Europe and spend some time with them in person and help develop those sanghas. So they were at a point where, you know, the sanghas just started to form after my first year of going there. And then I was going to do a stronger year there, you know, still going quarterly, but I was gonna like, you know, put more attention into it. And then the coronavirus hit. So then I was not able to go there. And the sanghas have been pulling through, but they can have a lot, if I'm there in person, it would give them a lot more help. So I would like to go to Europe for the next year because I can sit in person with the sanghas there. I cannot sit with the sangha here in person. So weekly Zoom meetings will continue. The same as it is, and it's good. It's a positive support doing the weekly Zoom meetings. However, for these fledgling sanghas, they could use a lot more in-person, hands-on experience. So I'm good at Zoom. I'm good at Zoom. I'm really working the Zoom thing, right? You guys probably notice, like, you know, like, you know, Shiva and Terri are cool. Like you watch them and you're all cool, right? But if you watch me, like I'm very strong with this Zoom thing. So there's, yeah, I remember Shiva was all like, yeah, you know, when you're doing Zoom or Facebook streaming, he's all, you get about 30% of the light through. And I'm all, hmm, no. Like, I mean, like at first I was that way, but then I worked my way up. I used to have to be like doing it live or focused on it at the same time. Now I'm like, you can just watch a recording and the same power is there. Ha ha! Yeah, I mean it's just a, it's a sit-up. A city. It's a city like Toledo, Ohio. So this is something that I'm very good at. So it's positive and good support for the American saga. And if we continue weekly meetings, that'll be good. Until the pandemic is over, and then things can get back to normal, and then we'll do more. But for this time, we got the skills that we need.

0:28:18
Now, having said that,

0:28:20
there's a psychological thing for new students, for them sitting with me in person. So students who've been with me for a while, even for who've sat with me three or four times in the Hungarian structure or the American structure, we have a lot in the second attention in these sanghas. So if you're in these sanghas and you've sat with me a couple times, a few times, you're able to really connect. But if you're like, you know, even if you sat with me a few times in Munich, the sangha structure is not there. So if I go to Munich and I sit there with the students, then they will start to create that sangha structure, the third jewel. And that structure is very important. Right now, most of the European cities, they are really still forming those kind of connections, that network, that organic network. You don't just become a Sangha all of a sudden. It takes nurturing it properly. So for me to go there in person will help nurture it properly. So that's the plan. I know that Shasta is very important, this power trip, and I know that the winter solstice in the Andes of Borrego is very important. So I'm going to be in America until the solstice, and then after the Solstice sometime in January, I'm going to fly over to Europe. I'm going to be based in Hungary, and then I'm going to fly around to all the other cities teaching. Now you're invited. If you have the performance requirements, then you could come and hang out or you can help. So if you wanna teach, you can be very helpful in teaching. So let's say that there's 10 of you who want to help. And let's say you want to help teach. You might say, I want to help the French. Or you might say, I want to help the guys in Vienna. Or you might say, I can help anyone. So what we would do is we would create a schedule. So I will definitely come once a month to each of the cities. And then let's say I come and I'm teaching there on a Wednesday in Paris, right? And then Yogini is there and she's able to teach on a Saturday. And then let's say you're going to be there once a month and you could teach that once a month on a Monday. So we can create a to offer teachings. And the more that they have the advanced students meeting with them, the more they're going to have a solid ability to develop the structure of Sangha. So when it's just me, they'll do it a little bit, they'll be like, yeah, okay, okay. And then you guys come over and you say, I'm part of the sangha. And then they look at you and go, oh, wow. Oh, they start to pattern match, they start to say, oh, this is a bigger thing, and it comes together faster. So if you're an advanced student and you're able to come and teach in any of the European cities, it's something that's going to be a great aid to developing the sanghas in these cities. So if you would like to help teach, you are welcome to come and help teach. And then you can teach in any of the cities that you want. You can even teach in a new city if you feel like it. Like if you're like, you know what?

0:32:43
Bruges.

0:32:45
I'm really feeling Bruges. You're going to sit there and have a beer and some chocolate while you're teaching. I don't know, whatever. So yeah, if you're really, really, really excited about teaching in some new place, you can try. See what happens. So if you want to come to Europe on the Euro mission and you don't want to teach, you just want to hang out in a place that's much more safe and be able to sit with me more often. I'll be in Budapest half of the time at least. So if you wanted to come to Hungary and we would have, you know, probably at least once a week, maybe twice a week meetings with the Hungarian Sangha and you want to just hang out and meditate and you know be part of a fun you know meditation spiritual mission, then you're welcome to come. So you can come and hang out in Europe. And if you want to follow me to you know the different places where I'm going to go teach and you just want to come and meditate and see Paris or see you know Reykjavik or something, then you're welcome to come. So any advanced students, I guess there's intermediate students here, if you wanna come, you're welcome to. So anyone on this call, if you wanna come on the Euro mission, it's gonna be fun. And again, the reason that we're doing this for the next year is because America don't have the opportunity to actually sit with students in person. But in Europe they do a better job with the COVID-19 shutdown stuff so we can sit with people in person and that will be helpful for them at their fledgling levels. Any of you who want to teach will definitely help them. And if you don't want to teach and you just want to be in a safer place and a place where there's more meditations, then you can be there.

0:35:00
Yay.

0:35:01
Now the performance requirements. So in order to join me on this mission, you have to have a very strong career where you can work remotely. That's it. So if you have, you know, if you're making $75 an hour or more, and if you can work remotely, then you're welcome to come. Simple. Yeah. The moment you lose your job, I send you back to America. Because I have a very high level of tonal that I want you to be at if you're going to partake of the Euro mission. But the Euro mission is, there's a very strong dharma, a very beautiful bring a strong focus to these new sanghas that can really use the support. This is gonna make these sanghas. It's gonna create those structures where they're gonna be able to grow and do beautiful things. They will become strong because of this. So there's a high dharma in doing this. And the other thing is that we'll be out of America where the coronavirus is going, whee, the washing machine. And we'll be going through different countries that handled the coronavirus intelligently.

0:36:35
And they continue to.

0:36:36
So, you know, right now they're seeing kind of a little bit of a second wave happening in certain places. So what do they do? They shut down borders. They wait until it passes, and then they can reopen borders. So as long as the countries do things correctly, and now they're, you know, Italy got them by surprise, but then they handled it right. And now all the European countries are doing it right. So there might be a little Corona outburst, and then two and a half weeks later, they handled it properly. So this is gonna be good. So we could be in a place where the governments are handling the pandemic properly, where it's much safer, where we can go out to a restaurant, where we can sit with, you know, Sangha in person. It's a happy condition. But you got to have a contract where you can work remotely. Now, I know that a lot of you can work remotely because you are, but you have to find out if you can work from Europe. So there's a nine hour difference in the time. And you have to make sure that your company is actually not watching to see where you're at. You know, they might be all, hey, we just noticed you're not in America anymore, and you're going to get fired, or we're going to pay you less, or all sorts of things. So you have to either clear it with your manager or you have to know that if you go and then they notice it, you're okay with that. Because if they're not okay with that, then I send you back. Back to America.

0:38:18
Yep.

0:38:19
But I think that the Europe mission will be super fun.

0:38:22
Because there's an energy in it, there's a special energy in it. Because the American thing,

0:38:30
opportunity,

0:38:31
but in Europe there's this opening. And so it's like, there's the energy, put the energy over there, and there's the Dharma over there, and then there's going to be like, good things. All right, so this is something I've been formulating for a while, and I just wanted to make sure that everything is clear on it. And it's clear enough to me, but I know that the Dharma is still unfolding and I think that Probably in the in Shasta, I will I will see completely So I so I first saw this in the second attention And then it's it's been slowly manifesting into the first attention And the details of it are are still forming so So, but I mean, I know the basics. The basics is, you know, 2021 is gonna be in Europe. And if you're in America, you shouldn't feel bothered and left out. You should be prepared to come and visit Europe when you can. So if you're in America, we're gonna do a summer solstice trip, a big summer solstice trip for the Europeans, probably in Europe. So I'm thinking somewhere like Northern Italy.

0:40:15
But north of that part.

0:40:16
part yeah because Trey Chana is a place that I've gone a lot of times in the Alps there it's really nice or Iceland because Iceland is super amazing so you can you can come over if if you're in America you can come over and visit so there's all sorts of like, you know, depending on the coronavirus conditions, there's different ways. So you can get like a test before you go and a test at a certain airport and then just be fine, you know, things like that. So there's there are ways to come visit. And just like now, you'll see me on Zoom probably once a week. So it kind of doesn't change. So for the US Sangha, things don't change. This level of attention and support and especially the structures and the second attention will remain. So the reason that there's a powerful Dharma is because of access, physical access in Europe. I can meet with people in person. And since that's a possibility there and not here, that's the first detention reason to

0:41:53
go.

0:41:54
I just want you guys to be clear on that. I'm not just going to some random place for, oh, I'm on holiday. There's a physical reason why, and there's a dharma why. And the physical reason, you know, like I can't replicate the physical reason here. If I could sit with you all in person, then maybe I wouldn't have seen this possibility. But it's like, energy low here, door open there. Go there. Dun, dun, dun, dun.

0:42:29
All right.

0:42:30
So, for those of you who are interested, start formulating in your mind what you want to do. Do you want to just hang out in Budapest? Do you want to come on tour with me and just meditate and hang out and see the different sanghas? Do you want to help teach? And that means that go there at a time that I'm not there and do teaching, because I need all of the above. Yeah, but if you want to do a little teaching,

0:42:58
that's cool, too.

0:42:59
I'm sure there's a lot of teachers. Probably more teachers are going to come than the Europeans are going to want to hang out with. We're like, OK, we've got four classes a week in Paris. We've got eight classes a week in Paris, and everyone's all like, oh, this is going to get in the way of my awesome. Or something like that.

0:43:22
No, no, we're going to have croissants

0:43:24
at every meditation class.

0:43:25
So yeah. Yeah, so but find out in your mind what you want to do. Do you want to go on this adventure, on this journey?

0:43:34
You can also make other journeys.

0:43:37
So we're at a time where there's still a very powerful energy line in Pacifica, but we're actually at a time where because I'm doing the Zoom thing, where you can go anywhere that you fancy.

0:44:06
This was funny with EJ.

0:44:08
I was all like, EJ moved somewhere like Portola Valley, right? Beautiful place, good energy, nice thing. And I was like, what are you doing in Portola Valley? It's like, you should be in Pacifica. I set a certain energy lines here. You should be doing the pacifica you know place of power yoga and then he's like oh yeah okay so then he moves here and then like two weeks later coronavirus and i'm like well now it doesn't matter sorry about that i know it keeps happening with ej So, yeah, so I have a couple students who moved up to Mendocino, very beautiful area, places of power to meditate to by the ocean there. And let's see, I think I have a couple students who are going to be going to San Diego. They just feel drawn to San Diego. I'm like great. So yeah, if there's some place, like we're at a moment where the structure of teaching is Zoom for America. So if you're feeling claustrophobic about Pacifica because you've been stuck here, you can go somewhere else if you want. Now there still are, you know, I've invested a lot of structure and power into Pacifica so that this is still a very powerful place to be, you know, built by me, but you guys are advanced students and if you're drawn to a place you can you can make it work. It's, yeah, so because we have the Zoom structure this this would be an okay thing to do now. And if you want to do the Euro mission, then that's definitely another place. But being on this mission, the mission is special. It's a special dharma. Being on a mission is a special dharma. Kind of finding your own little nice place to meditate is something you can do as an advanced student, it's no problem. Pacifica still, Pacifica and Bodie Woods still have very strong structures. So they're very constructive. So you might say, wow, I'm gonna go to like Indio. Indio is like the armpit of California.

0:46:50
And you're like, yeah, I'm gonna go to India.

0:46:52
Then you go to India and you're all like,

0:46:54
oh God, why am I here? Oh, it sucks. Going back to Pacifica. Well, you guys are advanced students,

0:47:01
so you guys can have your adventures if you want. Any place you're drawn to, if you like going, if, you know, has no coronavirus then enjoy um but your mission super exciting that's the um that's the hot thing i mean there's there's an opening there there's an opportunity and the dharma is strong. So if you want to do, follow the strongest wave of dharma, it is to go to Europe. And then otherwise, everything else is good. Actually, I mean, there's a lot of strong, there's strong dharma here, now, over Zoom. There is, it's very strong. So if you don't end up going to Europe or something, don't be like, everything's horrible, I'm not in Europe. I'm like, oh my God, there you go, there you go again. Enjoy whatever you're doing, right? Like whatever you're doing, enjoy it. If you can't work remotely from Europe, even though you would have rather gone there and you're stuck in Pacifica, then enjoy it. It's an amazing opportunity. Like the structures of energy lines here is amazing. So, you know, don't get all, they want this but they don't have it. Whatever struggle, going to Europe will be a struggle.

0:48:44
You know, I don't know.

0:48:45
Whatever struggle, going to Europe will be a struggle.

0:48:48
You know, I don't know. We're gonna travel around and get tired. I've been really enjoying being here because I haven't had to travel for a long time. Traveling is tiring, it wears on you. So yeah, we're in the Kali Yuga, everything's gonna be tough one way or another. And your options are all good options. Good options for the Dharma. To be in Pacifica is very good. To be in Bodhi Woods is very good. If you if you have a feeling to go somewhere like Mendocino or Tahoe or live somewhere else, if you can do that and that's what you want to do, this is a good time to do it. You can do it. If you want to go to Europe, there's a cool dharma to really help those fledgling European sanghas. That would be very, very strong. I'm doing it, so it's a strong dharma. And then, after a year, then we'll come back and probably there'll be a vaccine that's working and not so many zombies and America won't be you know this washing machine of coronavirus and then you know everything will be cool and then we can go into the next phase of dharma here. So the dharma just keeps opening and it provides lots of options and they're all good. So you shouldn't think one thing is better than another, that something is good and something is bad. Just follow the Dharma, whatever it is, whatever the Dharma is for you. work and enjoy it. Enjoy your experience of the pathway to enlightenment. work and enjoy it. Enjoy your experience of the pathway to enlightenment. Okay, that's it. Thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
