0:00:00
Hello. Alright, welcome to Satsang. We're going to begin with meditation. We'll begin with a focus on the heart, and we'll be meditating to a song a little bit longer than usual. So this song's about seven minutes long. Okay, sit up nice and straight. Focus to the heart and let's begin.

0:00:31
the the so the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so the the the the so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so so so Alright, very nice. So today, I'd like to offer you the Lojong teachings on the seventh point. So this is the final point of the seven points of mind training. And this Lojong teaching is guidelines for mind training. So, guidelines are a good thing. When Buddha was talking about the guidelines he was giving

0:03:40
his students, he said, these guidelines are kind of an inner and outer expression of sila. Sila is a Sanskrit that we learn, an observance of our minds toward our thoughts, our feelings, our experience, and dealing with the world and other people. It's kind of like a prescription for sustaining dharma. It's like a doctor would give you a prescription of wisdom for dealing with adverse conditions, bad karma, for dealing with people, relative bodhicitta. So it's a lot about dealing with the suffering of other people or the suffering you perceive from other people, dealing with difficult people, and all the hardships of life. So it's a prescription for solving suffering. And it's better than a doctor's prescription. Once I had a stomachache, I told my doctor, and he prescribed a medication, and he said, well, you know, this can cause a lot of cramping and pain in the hands and wrists. And I was like, what? He said, yeah, and that's just opening the bottle. So prescription. So the, the, the Lojong guidelines are really a way to unite your attention and awareness in a way of Dharma. So it's bringing everything forward into a clear view so that you can proceed in life in a way that you're able to get out of suffering, or if you see someone else in suffering, help them out of suffering. That's all it's about. So the first guideline is make all three inseparable. And when they say all three, it is your actions, your words, and your thoughts. So it all begins with our intention. When we have an intention aligned with the Dharma, then our thoughts will be thoughts of Dharma. Our words will be words of Dharma, and our acts will be doings of Dharma, or not-doings of Dharma. And then as a natural occurrence, thoughts, words, and actions follow the Dharma. So, long ago in Tibet a Rinpoche who had lay students invited three of his Lay students to come and visit him and they were kind of far away, but he was this powerful enlightened master So they they definitely wanted to see him so he said come and bring you a gift and One of the wealthy merchants came, this lay student, and he brought gold. And he put the gold before the master and he recited the Diamond Sutra, a famous enlightened text that he had learned. And that was his expression of sharing the Dharma with his teacher. And then the second life student was also a wealthy merchant. He came from afar with gems. He laid the gems before his teacher and then he praised his teacher. He was like, Oh Guru, you are the best Guru. You're better than any other Guru. And he said all these wonderful things. And then the third merchant was also a wealthy merchant, and he came from afar as well, and he brought a sheep. And he gave him the sheep, and he said, You deserve all the greatest joys. And then the master looked at all three of them and said, Okay, you, the gold merchant, you can go. You, the gems merchant, you can go."

0:14:29
And he said,

0:14:30
You, the sheep guy, the sheep monger.

0:14:33
He said,

0:14:34
Come with me, I'm going to give you a special teaching. And the other two say, But Master, why? We've brought you such amazing gifts, and we told you amazing, happy, beautiful things, and yet you will take this guy who just brought a sheep." And then the master says, it is because this student who brought the sheep had the alignment of all of his actions, words, and thoughts with the Dharma. He said, you came carrying gold and jewels on a cart with servants. And he came from the lowlands, because the sheep, they didn't have sheep up in the mountains, right? They had some yaks and mountain goats or something, right? So he brought a special sheep, because the sheep had a special sweet milk, and he wanted his guru to try this milk. See? His guru was a foodie. And so he says, you guys came on carts with servants. And this guy actually brought the sheep from the lowlands. And then when you get up into the mountains, the sheep couldn't actually handle the terrain. So he had to actually carry the sheep a lot of the way. So he had a lot of giving, selfless giving, in his doing, in his action. And then he said, of your words, you know, you spoke to show me that you are a high student who knows the Diamond Sutra to make me think that you're good, so that I would say something to elevate your position. And you praised me, so that I would then maybe talk to you and give you insight about your business. And then they were like, oh, that's exactly why I said that. And he said, but this guy, he just wanted to offer me something for my own joy and happiness. It's very selfless. So the words and intentions and actions have to be of the Dharma. Because, you know, giving a guru a great gift is nice. That's always good. And saying beautiful things is always good too. It's most important to have also your thoughts, your mind, and your intent set on the Dharma. Then everything that you do is sweet with the Dharma. Now there are two components to this consideration of guidelines, of this inner etiquette. One is called karita, and the other is called varita. Karita is doing, or I guess, things to do, the right things to do, and varita is the right things not to do. So when we're considering these guidelines, all of them are saying, do this, don't do this, do this, don't do this. And these are things that we learn from by reflecting on them. We learn from them by seeing what's going on in our lives and seeing where these guidelines are giving us insight. So these are, you know, do this, don't do this, do this, don't do this. It sounds like a rule, but it's not a rule. It's a wise insight. So, it's kind of like, you know, I mean, they can become rules, essentially. But it's like, if you were driving, and if you're a good driver, yeah, maybe you don't need to stop at every stop sign But you may crash someday So that so we have these we have these guidelines Like stop at the stop sign look Or or you know, I guess that the guideline would be when you stop at a stop sign look both ways Right look both ways before you cross the street. You don't have to, but you can still cross the street. Maybe you're faster than a car. But we have these guidelines because they keep you safe. But I guess with cars, there's all these rules. So the rules are, if you don't stop, you can get a ticket, even if there's no other cars around. If you don't stop and someone sees you, you get a ticket. Yeah, sure. So the good thing about the Lojong guidelines is you're not going to get a ticket. They're not rules where you break them and then something bad happens to you. Well, I mean, it's not written in stone. So, the Ten Commandments. So there was this rabbi, and he goes over to a couple in the synagogue, and he says David and Esther are you keeping the Ten Commandments and they say yes, we are Rabbi And he says very good, and then David says She keeps the six of them. I keep the other four Yeah, but see the thing is whenever there's a rule Then that's where you start to negotiate these things. You're all, hmm. And then, if there's a rule, then eventually, somewhere in your ego, you've got to break the rule. You've got to do it some day. In some incarnation, that rule must be broken, because you've got to see what happens. Yeah. So, let's see. So, this guy goes to church, and he's very upset because The Sunday before when he went to church He put his hat up. They have a little vestibule like a coat room before you get into the church, right? He put his hat up on a hanger, you know, and he was like great after church He came out a little bit late because he was talking to some people and his hat was gone So he says someone stole my hat from church. I'm really mad about that. So he's sitting there in church, and he's like, you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to steal somebody else's hat. I'm going to be the first one out of mass. I'm going to go, steal someone else's hat, and there. It's even. And then the priest gives a sermon about the 10 commandments. And then after the sermon, he walks right up to the priest and he goes, thank you, thank you, Father, because I was about to break one of the 10 commandments. And he says, yeah, someone stole my hat, so I was gonna get even and steal someone else's hat. And then the priest is like, oh, very good. So thou shall not steal advised you that you shouldn't. And then he goes, no, no, no, it wasn't that one. It was when you said, thou shall not commit adultery. Then I remembered where I left my hat. So at some point, if there's a rule, someone's got to figure out a way to get around it. So guidelines are better than rules. Because you can't have a rule for everything. I remember I was hanging out with a Buddhist monk somewhere, I think it was in Nepal, and he had a smartphone and he was just sitting there playing video games all the time. Oh no, this was in India. I was flying somewhere, I mean, sitting on a flight next to a Tibetan Buddhist monk, and he's just playing video games all the time. And I said to him, does Buddha say that's okay? Because you're just sitting there focused on, you know, I don't know, some little game. And I'm like, what's Buddha say about that? And he says, nothing. There's no rule. Buddha never said that we can't play video games. And I was like, oh, okay. So, you can't make a rule for everything. If Buddha had a whole bunch of monks sitting around with smartphones playing video games, he would Go floss your teeth. All right, so rules cannot contain every situation. And then rules are also inflexible because sometimes you make a rule and you go, well, it's not always the case. So it could be that sometimes it's right and sometimes it's wrong. So that's why guidelines are important. Because guidelines are things that you explore in the moment to see if the guidelines make sense or how they make sense. So a guideline has a lot more range. A guideline is a big gray area. It's not just a Boolean yes or no. In a guideline, you can find a much more profound truth because it's not any definitive rule. There was Richard Branson who created this thing that they call Virgin Atlantic. It's an airline and he likes, this is a guy with like an incredible personal power who likes to create new businesses about which he knows nothing, right? So then that's why he calls it Virgin because he didn't know anything about the airlines business. And then he said, I'm going to stock it. I'm gonna put my mind in there. I'm gonna make a fantastic airline. And then one of the key things that he did that he notes created his success was he found a very successful entrepreneur that he needed. So this was a British businessman named Freddy Lake. And Freddy Lake in the early 70s really disrupted the transatlantic airlines business because he had this wonderful idea. He said, wow, British Airways is so expensive. And he said, I wonder if there's a way to do it cheaper. So he came up with a way to reduce the services on the flight, but to still have an excellent experience and to make things like, maybe the meals not as good, things like that. So he found ways to cut back and he was able to make the price of a ticket almost half. So Brampton found Lake and he said, hey, you know, can you work with me? This is what I want to do. And Lake had been out of the airlines business for a while and then he was like, okay, you know, I'll tell you what you got to do. I'll give you the guidelines. Because he had been, you know, he had been a pilot, he had been in the business so long, and he knew all of the factors. So he started to tell Branson, okay, so first of all, you're going to want to do this. Second of all, you've got to watch out for this. And because he was someone who was disruptive in bringing down the prices on flights, he was able to tell Branson how to have a lot of quality without spending a lot of budget. And then Branson was, Richard Branson, was very successful with Virgin Atlantic. And he, whenever he faced competition, that was something that that Freddie Lake knew a lot about, because when he went against British Airways, British Airways was this behemoth in the market, and they threw everything at him. He was like, here's how you handle the competition, and Branson said that the competition was the most difficult part in the airline's business for success. So he was very, very grateful to Lake for his guidelines. His guidelines came from experience. And when you have experience or foresight, then you gain kind of a wisdom. So an enlightened teacher is able to create these guidelines. Like Buddha created guidelines for students, right? And Atisha and Chakala, they created these guidelines in Lojong. They They had the ability to understand what's going to happen. So an enlightened teacher, knowing karma, they know what actions will have what results. And based on those results, how it will affect one's consciousness, the suffering of experience, or the liberation from experience. So an enlightened teacher, they gain from their meditation an insight, a wisdom. And this gives them the ability to say, you know what? Don't stick your hand in the fire, because it's going to hurt." And someone thought, what? Ah! Right? So, from having foreknowledge, they were able to give you guidelines. Now, if you don't have foreknowledge, then they were able to create the guidelines that we would follow. So Sun Tzu, when he was speaking of spies, he said that a wise general is enabled to do great things, greater than the ordinary man, through foreknowledge. And this foreknowledge in the art of work is something that someone comes through, through foresight, seeing, putting information together, which is about spying. So enlightened people spy on the future by knowing the past. So this is a very, very powerful teaching of getting foreknowledge and using it to go go through adverse conditions successfully. So Harriet Tubman, right? After her escaping slavery, and then going back and helping many slaves to escape through the underground railroads in the 1850s, the Civil War started. And then she joined the Union Army as a nurse and a cook, and she was nursing and cooking, and then she said, hey, Colonel, I can help you. And he said, what can you do? And she said, I could walk through enemy lines and I could find out the positions of everybody because I'm just a slave to them, right? They won't see me coming. They won't see that I'm actually there to gain foreknowledge. So he says, OK, give it a shot. So she goes beyond enemy lines, and she scopes out this area where a strategic area that can be taken with a small amount of troops beyond the enemy lines because there was a river that could take the boats down there. But the river was guarded. They had mines in the river. And then the sides of the river, they had places where they had set up ambushes, the strongholds. So she went down there from plantation to plantation to plantation, talking to slaves. And she said, so what are you guys doing? What are your masters doing? And they're, oh, yeah, they're putting these barrels of gun powder here in the river. And she found out all the locations of the mines in the river, all the ambush strongholds. And she found out all of the troops and forces guarding the plantations and where they were. So she found it out, mapped it out, got all of that information, and then she came back to General Montgomery. So she had like a full battle plan. And so General Montgomery let her lead the fight. So she was actually the first woman in the United States to lead a military operation. And it was also successful because she had all of the foresight. So they went in on boats and they went around the mines in the river. They avoided the strongholds and then they docked at land to attack. They burnt down the plantations. And she also freed hundreds of slaves. So this is a foresight, right? And she weakened that region. And then Montgomery later came in with a greater force, pushed the Confederates back, and they had nothing to rely on anymore because the whole region was disabled and then they had a huge win. So this is from foreknowledge, from understanding, from foresight being able to create guidelines for military conquest. So I like that one. That's a great story about her. It's like, yeah, she'd be the slaves. But then she also, you know, she was also a great spy and a great taking the Lojong guidelines, we have to understand that it's not a rule that's being pushed on us. Because I know we all want to be free thinkers, right? Like, I think I could walk out into the middle of the street and it would be fine. If the street is a highway, it should still be fine. So we all have our own individual interests, and it's sometimes difficult to say, oh, I will follow this guideline that I don't really understand, that I struggle with, that's not something inherent to my way of thinking and being. So sometimes when we hear the guidelines, we feel like, oh, I don't want to be smushed down by a guideline, stuck into a guideline box. No, guidelines are beautiful spiritual gifts. It's not something that really hurts you, it's something that uplifts you. But that reminds me of the life of Brian, this Monty Python movie, where Jesus is going around helping people, healing people. He's coming into a city and he brushes past this blind man and touches his eyes and then the blind man can see. And then the blind man is all angry. He's like, hey. He's like, I was just sitting there begging, being blind, and then somebody just walks over and heals me. I'm not happy about it." He's like, now I can't, I had a good begging gig going on, and now I can see and I don't have that anymore. So, it's a good thing. It's not a bad thing. It's not like receiving some horrible gift, right? You get some horrible gift for Christmas, you can throw it away. Except for one time, I was at work, and one of my coworkers, he was a very strong Wall Street trader. He wore beautiful, impeccable suits, and very conservative ties. But every Wednesday, he wore this horrible, hideous tie. It looked like red and orange. It looked like something terrible, like a sunset vomited. I don't know. So it was just this horrible tie. I worked with him for a few years back we had the secret Santa thing where everybody draws a name and then gets a gift for somebody. And you don't know who your secret Santa was. Well, anyway, we open up the presents in front of each other and I got this horrible tie. And I was like, I got that for you. And then he goes, okay. So because he wanted to not make his boss think it was a horrible gift, he wore it from that time on every Wednesday. So he has to be detached, throw it away. No, but the Lojang guidelines, they're always positive, always constructive. We see that, we can see from our experience that when we face a situation where the guidelines apply, when we reflect on it, when we follow the direction of the guidelines, we see that things get better, things are happier, things are brighter. So, this is important. Now, when we're dealing with life, a lot of times we don't want to deal with certain parts of it. That's why the guidelines get you to face everything. Like, there's some things you would rather run away from, but the guidelines will say, no, no, no, face it. And this is consistent with one of the very important fundamental teachings in this school, which is, don't fake it, do it. Don't try to cheat it, you know, you gotta really do it for real. You can't fake stopping thought in meditation. You can't fake being humble in your heart. You can't fake enlightenment. So therefore, when you follow these guidelines, these are guidelines to bring you to a full and true experience of letting go, letting go of self, letting go of suffering, and enabling others to be liberated from their limitations as well. So there is one of the Lojong guidelines for to not be partial. Some people are like, Oh yeah, I really love meditation. And so they'll just meditate. But then, because they don't practice compassion, then they're not mindful. So while they might have a nice meditation, they're not rounded. They don't bring the insight of their meditation to their experience in life. So then their meditation just becomes a one hour practice, and it's not something that's extended into all of their life. So when we are not being partial, you'll have to face things. Oh, that's coming up, and you say, well instead of me just saying, no, I don't like it. I'm going to go meditate. Then you're able to deal with difficulties, hardships that come up. You're able to work with them, and you're able to face that aspect of life. If you're hiding from an aspect of life, then you're not developing your spirit. If you can be really, really spiritually high, really well-read, great wisdom, and then someone keys your car, and then you're like, I'm gonna kill them! So it's like, if there's that one little thing that throws you off, that's where you need to bring your practice. So if you're partial to, oh, the high spiritual teachings, and then you can't handle getting a job, learning technology or something like that, too good a job, then your practice is not whole. It's not balanced. So you could be, that's where you start to see spiritual people get spaced out. They get all into philosophy. They go on these weird Tangents of well, what if life was like a lotus floating in the sky? Whatever man right, so a lot of spiritual people like to get into all that spiritual stuff and Then what they do is their life becomes a very unbalanced Because their their mind is going into these high weird bright high, weird, bright, interesting, non-physical dimensions, and maybe they're great and spiritual, but if you cannot balance that high spiritual insight with the physical world, then your high spiritual insight is not worth much. So, when we have the ability to take everything in our experience, everything that comes across our mind and bring compassion and bring dharma, then we are practicing whole practice, not partial practice. This is very, very important. So if you're like becoming a computer programmer and you learn HTML and CSS, but then you're like, oh, I'm just gonna skip the JavaScript because I don't like it. Too hard, too weird. Then you're cutting yourself off. It reminds me of in business, let's say in airlines. The airlines usually get you to where you're going, but maybe not your bags. So for some reason, there's something a little bit missing in the airline business. It's very common for bags to be misplaced. So I'm like, oh cool. You know, this happened to me before. I'm like, oh, I got to Grand Cayman. And I'm like, oh, I'm going to go scuba diving. And then all of a sudden they say, sorry, your bags have been sent to Boston. So I'm in Grand Cayman and I'm waiting for my scuba bags, my gear is in Boston. And then by the time my gear gets there, it's time for me to go back home. Or let's see, so some of you will remember the VCR. That was a thing that played video tapes back in the 80s. So there was this really funny thing. The VCR player was really good at playing the videos, but it was really bad at telling time. Right, it always had this thing, flashing light, and anyone I ever knew, I would look at their VCR and there'd be this flashing light saying 12 o'clock.

0:46:41
Always.

0:46:42
And so, yeah, it played the thing, but didn't tell time. And know how they fixed that? They made DVD players. So anyway, you don't want to be partial in everything that you do. If you're going to get someone on an airplane, get their bag on it, too. If you're going to tell the time, then tell it like it is. They didn't really need to have a clock on those things. But they did, and it was annoying. So, this is very, very important. Don't fake it. Do it. You've got to do it for real. And this means that the Lojong guideline is that you have to practice everything, and you can't be partial to anything. You have to practice with everything that comes up in your life. So if you get mad, you practice compassion. If you start to blame other people for your suffering, then you've got to practice compassion. It comes up again and again and again that people get very upset with others and they say, you caused my suffering. Now Buddha had a saying about this, right? He said, look how you hurt me and harmed me, how you threw me down and beat me, right? Or hurt me and robbed me, how you threw me down and beat me. Live with such thoughts and you live in hate. Abandon these thoughts and live in love. So if someone does something wrong to you and hurts you, you have to practice strong compassion. Because if you just react and always blame, then you live in hate. You have to take that situation and make your heart bigger. You have to have greater, greater compassion and insight. Otherwise, you'll live in great, great, great suffering. So, when you are upset with somebody, blaming somebody, then that's when you really have to practice compassion. All right, so we're going to do a meditation. This is the transmission of this guideline which is don't fake it do it when you feel suffering don't fake it do compassion for real so we're going to sit up nice and straight bring the focus to the third eye and then look up this way and we'll sit for one song so light focus on the third eye okay let's

0:50:01
so light focus on the third eye. Okay let's begin. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Oh yeah so you Very nice. So when you find yourself dealing with something hard, something that you'd hardship, pain, suffering, adverse conditions. Very often they knock you down, and when you get knocked down, you feel that. It hurts. You suffer. It's important to get back up

0:53:00
and practice dharma, practice bodhicitta, follow the Lojong guidance. Because if you get knocked down and you say, no, I never want to do this again, then you don't win, you don't become a victor, you don't learn. You get directed by karma, by limited karma. So when you get knocked and then you learn from it. Then you say, okay, I can get back up and keep going. It's very important. So if you get knocked down and you're flat out, and you're in suffering, and everything's terrible, don't be so hard on yourself. That happens to everyone, including times were in past lives, eons ago, he had really tough times. So, all enlightened beings have faced the same suffering and difficulty and hardships, and they have learned, they've suffered, and they've learned from their suffering. They've fallen down, don't think you're a bad person or a sinner that's going to just be tormented in hell or something like that. If you fall down, know that you can get back up and keep going, that you should follow the Dharma. It's going to be okay. So, there was this man, he went to a Buddhist retreat for two weeks, and at the retreat he took the vow for the five precepts, which is, don't kill, don't steal, don't lie, don't take intoxicants. So he did this wonderful time, meditation, going, Oh, I'm no holy. This is great. I love it. So the week after he got out, I call it getting out. If someone's in jail, the week they got out. He had a fishing trip with his father and brother planned. So he goes fishing with them, and then a few days after the fishing trip he realizes something, and he gets so upset, and he goes to see his Buddhist master. And he's like, I went to the retreat, I took the vow for the five precepts, these are guidelines, and he said, and I totally screwed up. The next week, I went out with my father, he's like, I caught a fish, which is, I killed. And he's like, I didn't even think about it. And then he goes, and then his brother had a lure, this little fishing device, right? A lure that he really thought was special and he ended up taking it. So he's like, I stole my brother's lure. Oh my gosh, that's horrible. And then he says, and then when we were having the fish for dinner that I killed, I had a glass of wine. Right, that's intoxicants. And then he said, and he was like, yeah, he's like, look, I caught this giant fish. And then he didn't really think it was such a special thing, but he liked it. And he goes, I lied, because I didn't like it. And then he goes, and then about sex and the Master's all, that's enough. We don't be so hard on yourself. Reflect on these things and see if there's a place of learning. So when we find little places where we mess up on a guideline, then that gives us an opportunity for greater understanding. And if we feel horrible about it, then we look into it more deeply. We look for greater dharma. Sometimes we're hard on ourselves and it's like we have a teeny little transgression and we're like, oh, it's the worst thing in the world. I lied. I said I liked that picture of the fish. It's worse. I'm a liar." So, sometimes don't be so hard on yourself. Or, if there's something significant, then you need to reflect on it more deeply. So there was this one monk who got the Lojong teachings, and he said, Whoa, I've studied all 59 of the Lojong teachings, and I don't know. I mean, there's just so many of them. I can't remember them all the time, and I think I'd break them left and right. So he goes over to his master, and he's like, this is kind of impossible. And then the master's all, oh, you should try living up to the vinyas. The vinyas are the 226 rules or guidelines lines for Buddhist monks. So anyway, there, baby. So he says, he's like, don't worry about so much. Are you remembering? Just when it comes to mind, then you should practice. He's like, I don't have to sit there and have the checklist of, is this happening right now? Should I be practicing this one, this one, and this one? All at the same time?" He's like, no, no, no, no. He says, mostly, you need to have wise shame and wise fear. If you have wise shame and wise fear, then these will naturally come up and you'll be able to do everything in place. So, wise shame and wise fear. Wise shame is when you have a recognition of what is right, what is proper. And that when you see that you're doing something out of ego cleaning, when you say, well that's just really wrong, right? You're like sitting there doing something you shouldn't be doing, reacting in a way you shouldn't be reacting. And then your higher self is like, I know I shouldn't be doing this. And then you start to connect with the Dharma and the teachings and you say, ooh, this is where I need to practice. And then the guideline starts to become, comes up in your mind. But when you're just acting and reacting in karma, then you don't see it. You're just doing things. But then when you're dedicated to your practice, some, this thing called wise, so wise shame comes up, right? It would be like, you know, if the Dalai Lama got mad because somebody bowed wrong and then he like bitch slaps him and he's all, oops, I got mad, sorry about that. I think the Pope did that recently, right? They weren't bowing, they were just like praying to him and he's like, you're so annoying. And he's like, oh, that's not becoming of a Pope, is it? So there's these things, right? That's what wise shame is. It's like, you might find that you have a reaction that's negative, and then say, this is not becoming of a Buddhist monk. This is not an enlightened way of looking at things. This is not an enlightened reaction. I should now practice the guidelines. So long ago in China, there was a famous Taoist master who was a woman and she and her attendant to come and visit a well-established, a large Taoist monastery. And this monastery was just a men's monastery. So the woman master and her attendant arrive and they see this older woman with beautiful clothes and nice silks and everything, just looking very, very nice. And then her attendant was wearing plain clothes. And her attendant was a young woman who was very, very beautiful. And then some of the monks saw her and they were like, Oh my God, she's so beautiful. And they thought she was so beautiful, they were so taken with her beauty. Four of them wrote letters to her, and they snuck them into her room or something like that. And they were professing their love and saying, Come with me, and I'll take you away from here. We'll be together. So, at the first satsang with her, with the master, both women walk in and they walk to the front, and then the older woman puts down some books and then walks away. And then the young beautiful woman is standing there. And it turns out the young beautiful woman was the Taoist master, and that the older woman was her attendant. And then she's like, okay, she's like, let's start with love. Some of you told me you love me. And she pulled out the letters and she reads them. And she's like, come on up then. She's like, if you love me and you want to take me away?" She's all, come over. And then the monks were like, they were shamed. And it was a teaching for them because they had desire. And then by her calling them out and embarrassing them, they were able to see that it was a self-desire. And then it was a teaching because they were able to let go of that self-desire. So that kind of, that's wise shame. Now wise fear, wise fear isn't really fear because fear cuts you off from your awareness. Fear stops you from doing a good job. But wise fear aids you in doing a good job. It focuses your awareness to the right place. So wise fear is the intelligent apprehension of danger. And then you're able to have the appropriate focus and attention towards that danger. So an example is martial arts. So if a martial artist is facing another martial artist, let's say that they have hands against a sword, right? So the martial artist is not going to be afraid because fear will shut them down. But the martial artist will be very focused. They're not going to take that sword for granted. So that's what's called wise fear. It's really an intelligent apprehension of danger so that you can apply the proper techniques to get out

1:07:53
of that danger.

1:07:53
A wise fear of one of Buddha's monks. There was a monk. of one of Buddha's monks. There was a monk, he was an older monk, he came in older. He was very wealthy his whole life. He was the son of a merchant and he grew this business and he had all the greatest things. He had money, he had land, he had great food, harem and all sorts of stuff. And then he realized in his life that that just created a lot of suffering and sorrow for him. So he became a monk. And then any time that there was good food around, he shunned it and he would give it to the younger monks. And he would only accept like gruel to eat. And anytime there was something offered like a new robe, he kept his old robes, his old dirty robes that are tattered, and he would give new robes to other monks. Anything, you know, he had the most meager of begging bowls, and he would never even wear slippers. And he would tell the younger monks, he would say, I used to have ruby slippers. There's no place like home. And he was like, but all of that just made my mind crazy. I had suffering. And he's like, so now I don't do anything that would engage any thought of desire, he said, an enlightened person would rather drink a bowl of molten lava than to think a thought of desire. So that's wise fear. Wise fear is your own irritation, getting bothered by people, getting mad at people. This is a very, very bad thing. If you get bothered by people and mad by people, then you are in a fight. You're picking a fight, or you're carrying on a fight. You're not walking away from a fight. You're not doing jujitsu to get out of a fight. You are engaged in a fight if you are engaging in irritation. So there's a Lodon guideline, which is don't be caught up in irritation. It's a very important teaching. Patoa, who was a great master of bodhisitta, he said, although we are Dharma people, because we do not use bodhisitta as a remedy for ego clinging, we are as sensitive as an open wound. Now, when you start to meditate and practice mindfulness, you become more aware. And as you become more aware, you start to see what hurts more. That's the first thing that happens. You're like, oh, my awareness field is opening. Ouch! I'm more aware of And so, the first component of spiritual awakening is sensitivity. But then there has to be a maturation of Dharma practice so that you can deal with this additional awareness in a way that is elevating. So when you can see more, you should be able to take advantage of what you see. If you see something and you think it's ugly, then it hurts you. But you should say, oh no, no, that's just another part of life. So people who practice meditation, mindfulness, In the beginning they become more sensitive and things bother them more and as Patala says you become more sensitive and an open wound and That's without practicing Dharma Once you practice Dharma Then you can then you're able to take advantage of your greater awareness awareness for the things that are out there to ascend to be more powerful to be Higher in terms of getting to a spiritual condition of wisdom For liberating yourself from suffering and liberating others from suffering So this is very important hmm cute story so there was a wandering monk in the Himalayas, and he comes across a village, and he comes in in the evening, and he walks in, and it's almost like no one's there. No one's on the street. There's no lights on. So he goes over to an inn, and he knocks on the door. Someone opens the door. He says, oh, hey, quick, come in. So he comes in there, and there's a lot of people in there, but they're very quiet, quietly eating, whispering. All of the windows are shuttered. They have candles, just a few, so it's very dim. And the monk says, what's going on in this town? And they said, well, up in the mountain next to the town, there's a demon. And if we have too many lights on, the demon attacks us. And if we make too much noise, the demon attacks us. So we've been suffering this, and the demons come and hurt many people. And the monk says, hmm, okay, I'm going to go up and take care of your demon problem. So they go, really? Of course. So, the monk walks up the mountain, goes to this cave, with no light on or anything, just walks in the dark, comes to the cave, and then in the cave this dark figure, darker than the shadows of the cave, appears with large claws, and it's a demon. And the demon's like, how dare you come into my cave? Why are you here? I will kill you. And then the monk says, demon, why are you so unhappy? What have I done? What have the people down there done? And the demon says, you make so much commotion, bothering me coming into my cave. The people down there, they have the bright lights, they make loud noises, they harm my ears and bothered me, right? And so the demon is so bothered by the lights, the noise, the commotion, and then the monk says, let me help you, he says. And he starts teaching him about bodhisitta. And he's like, you know, take in the light. The light bothers you? Take in the light. And then he sits with him and goes through the practice of Bodhisitta, the considerations for the things that create suffering for him. So they do this beautiful Bodhisitta, and then after the considerations of Bodhisitta, the monk is sitting there with his eyes closed, talking about compassion. Then he opens his eyes afterwards and there's another monk sitting there. And he's like, where did the demon go? It was the monk. So this monk came from a place and he went to this cave as a place to meditate. And he sat down to meditate and he said, I'm going to meditate, I'm going to go for enlightenment and really practice. And then sitting there meditating, he got bothered by the people in the village. He's bothered, bothered, bothered until him being a peaceful monk seeking enlightenment, he became a huge, horrible demon that was attacking people. But once he was able to compassion For those things that caused suffering for him, and he was a monk again now He had the teachings of compassion, and he was not bothered again

1:16:59
so

1:17:01
we have as Dharma people we have the intention of Enlightenment for ourselves and others however if we Become irritated we can become like a demon, harming other people, being very, very bad, very negative, and the whole time saying, it's because of them.

1:17:27
It's because she did it.

1:17:29
She did it. They did it. Everyone did it.

1:17:32
So it's very important when you start to, when you recognize that you have irritation, to start to practice true compassion. Now when you make great mistakes, you know, you don't beat yourself up, right? And you don't point blame at other people. You have to learn from your mistakes. This is the most important thing. Because you will make mistakes. But the most important thing is that you learn from these mistakes. And then when you learn from these mistakes, you can grow. You can grow stronger and more wise so that you can that level of awareness and beyond that level of suffering. So there's a great story about learning from mistakes. So this young preacher walks into a post office in Chicago with his 12-year-old son. He has a package to send.

1:18:45
It goes over to the clerk.

1:18:47
He gives him the package. The clerk puts a stamp on it, and the preacher is looking at the clerk. And then he completes the transaction. And then the preacher says, son, to the 12-year-old, and he said, this was back in the early, early 70s. And then he said, son, five years ago, I was on my first job, I was a rookie cop, a police officer in Chicago, at the time of the 1968 Chicago riots. And the Chicago riots occurred after the assassination of Martin Luther King. So it was a time where people said, wait, they killed Martin Luther King. This is a horrible thing. So there was a lot of especially African-Americans who were very, very upset. So there was, it started off with protests and then it became riots. So in the beginning, he says, he goes on with the story, there was a large group of African Americans and they were, they had a very peaceful protest. They were just walking down the street and they were chanting. They weren't destroying anything, no violence or anything. But then the police were given orders to stop them from going forward down Michigan Avenue. So he was in his squad, and his sergeant said, go in and stop them, right? And so he had a baton and a helmet, and he goes in. Now, he was a church-going man his whole life, and yet he found, but he said, when I was going in to stop this group of peaceful protesters, he said, I was filled with anger and contempt for them. Because we told them, turn around. And how dare they not turn around? They did not respect our authority. And he also acknowledged that he was racist. He's like, these African Americans and all these white cops, and they're not listening to us. So then they go in, the squad of police, with their batons, attacking. And then there's melee happening, but he remembers, there's a lot happening, and he remembers this one African American who he hits with his baton, and he remembers that he cracked him in the head, like right in the third eye, and he was bleeding. And then somehow he jumped on a guy, and he had his baton, and he was choking him with it. And it was just crazy. And he was like, I lost my mind, and I was just angry. in the confusion that the other people,

1:22:21
the other police in the squad backed off

1:22:23
or went to another direction, and he found himself very deep in the protesters in the crowd of African Americans. And so eventually, a bunch of African Americans pulled him up off of this guy, and then he was like, he looks around, no white cops around, and he's like, uh-oh, and then they pull off his helmet, he gets punched a couple times, and then another guy comes up, somehow one of the African American guys got a baton from somebody else, and he comes over, and he's about to hit him with it, right? And then the guy who he had hit and thrown to the ground, he gets up, and he says, stop, stop, stop. And he pushes the guy back with the baton, and then he says to the guys who are all around, I mean, they're like really mad, right? They're like, this guy, these guys just attacked us. And this guy, look what he was doing to you. And he said, he's like, no, no, no, we're not, we're not here to do this, right? We're not here to fight. We're not going to return this negative violence that they're doing to us. So he said, No, no, no, let's stop. And then he pushes off all the guys, and he walks this white cop through the crowd. And he keeps people away. And then he walks them over to a line of cops. And that's it. And the cop doesn't even say thanks or anything. He's just like, phew. He's like, wow. He's like, I'm so lucky I got out of that. And then he thinks, hmm. You know? He's like, what I did was crazy. I was just following orders, and I was all getting all mad with all the guys I was with. We were all like, oh, respect my authority. And so he's like, wow, we were doing something kind of mean. And then he said, and then that guy who I attacked, he's like, he did something that it's like the teachings that I hear from church, like the teachings that I hear from the Bible. It's like that was something good. So he was sitting there thinking about it and he walked off the force. So he quit that day. And then he later got more into religion and thought more about his religion, his practices, and then eventually entered a seminary and became a priest. So he says, so he explains this to his son. And then he says, so he's like, I recognize you to the clerk in the post office. And he goes, he says, do you recognize me? And the guy goes, now that you mention it, yeah. And then he says, so I've been praying for years that I'd have a chance to meet you again, to ask for your forgiveness. And then he says, absolutely. So he shakes his hand and then he says, yeah, it's a good thing. They're a very positive outcome. So there's a serious mistake, it's very important to reflect on it, to admit it, to understand it and reflect on it and say, whoa, yeah, this was a big mistake. It's to look at the gravity of it, to weigh it, to see what's right, if you should change your conduct, how you should do things in the future. It's very important. And then it's very important to learn from your mistake.

1:27:23
When you learn from your mistake,

1:27:24
then you can change things. So this police officer, first he was kind of in shock, so he left the force. But then he learned from his mistake. And instead of engaging in a profession where he was engaged in activities he didn't want to be in, he changed. And it's very, very important when you do make a mistake, if you make a transgression towards another person, that you practice forgiveness. That's forgiving yourself and asking for forgiveness. So, I think it's important to forgive yourself, but also if you bothered someone else and hurt someone else, it's good to ask for their forgiveness. I remember when I was a kid, there was this bully at school, and he would just go around beating up little smaller kids. I think there was some time where parents were around or something, and I asked him, why do you beat up kids all the time? He said, yeah, you know, it's kind of wrong, but I always go to church on Sunday, and I go to confession, and I get saved. It's like, so, you know, I'm working it out. And I'm like, that's not fair. I don't think it works that way. Or, it's like, some guy was like, praying every day, he's like, God, I really want a bicycle. Please get me a bicycle. Then he realized that God doesn't work that way, and he stole a bicycle, and then he asked for forgiveness from God.

1:29:20
No, it doesn't work that way.

1:29:22
So when you're asking for forgiveness, you have to be sincere, and you have to ask from a place where you're changing your conduct. You can't keep doing something bad, and then just going, oh, I'm going to go to confession. It can't be cyclical. Forgiveness is something that actually breaks the karma. So, instead of doing something bad again and again, the moment that there's forgiveness, there's not that cycle of suffering anymore. He prayed to God for a bicycle, realized God doesn't work that way. But God forgives. You've got to have a sense of humor. This is very important, too. In Buddhism, a sense of humor is very important, because a sense of humor is light, and a sense of humor can break heaviness of self. So you have to have a sense of humor with yourself when you fall down on your face, when you make mistakes. I mean, we have to take things very seriously. We've got to learn from that. But a sense of humor always helps you. I remember a humorous story of a Buddhist monk in China. Oh, as a Buddhist master, actually. So, there was this great master, and he went away on a retreat. I mean, like, he went into his little room in the monastery, and he was on retreat for, I think, three weeks. And there were some lay practitioners who were in the monastery, and they would do things like they would bring food for the monks and all sorts of things, and flowers, and help clean up, and then they would receive teachings. the master and he has these buns that he was bringing for the monks. Now he was a new kind of practitioner, so he didn't know the etiquette that you shouldn't just go run over to the master and start talking to him, but he did. He's like, I got these buns. So he runs over to the master and says, hey master, I have all these buns, please take one. So the master goes, okay. And he starts eating it. And he's like, oh, let me ask you questions and have another bun. And the master's like, okay. And then they're eventually sitting down and then the master eats the last bun. And then the master makes this look. Okay. And then, and he keeps asking questions, but the Master stops answering. And he's like, Master? And then one of the senior monks comes in and says, What's wrong with the Master? He goes, I don't know. He's like, what was on that plate? And he goes, those were the buns I brought for him. And he goes, the Master was just on a three-week retreat where he didn't eat anything. How many buns did he eat? And the guy goes, he ate 12 buns. And the master's all, and then he's like, oh no, he ate 12 buns. And he goes, well, okay, well, it's just 12 buns, right? And he goes, yeah, 12 pork buns. He goes, the master doesn't eat meat. And he's like, he liked it. He's like, I didn't know the rules. And then he goes, okay, well, now the senior students are coming in to meditate with the master, and I guess we have to get out of here, or you've got to get out of here. So the senior monks come in, they sit with the master, and the master's just sitting there. And the monks sit with him. He doesn't say anything, so they just kind of like sit, and then And then after a while they bow and they walk out smiling and saying oh amazing

1:33:42
Amazing Dharma, amazing gifts from the Master and then

1:33:46
The next person in line is a governor Some sort of politician who comes in who knows the Master and gets advice on how to rule or how to Make laws that are along terms with the Dharma. So he comes in, he sits with the Master, and then they peek in and the Master's sitting there. And then after a while, he bows. He asks him questions, but the Master just sits there. And then eventually he leaves and he's like, oh, the Master's so wise, so wise, I know exactly what to do about this problem. And then he and a few other monks come back in and then they sit in front of the Master. And then after an hour or so, then the Master starts looking like he's breathing. And then he's like, and they go, Master, are you okay? And he's like, yes, yes, yes. And then they say, Master, but you ate those 12 pork and buns, we thought you were going to die." And he goes, oh yeah, I ate those buns. It's like, they were so good I went into Samadhi. The master is sitting there, all in like spiritual bliss, and they think that he's going to die from pork buns. All right, well, you got to have fun. I mean, what else are you going to do So, to end, I'd like to talk about the guidelines. The Lojong guidelines are a gift. It is a gift to you and a gift to others. So when you follow the guidelines, when you have the guidelines, then you have a greater awareness. You know what to do, where to direct your attention and how to. And then this makes you safe. When you have an awareness of compassion and you know where to direct it and when to direct it, it creates a place where you're safe. Safe from the suffering of ego-clinging. But then you also have this beautiful awareness where you bring safety for others. Buddha said that you bring countless others out of danger and out of suffering and out of maya. So this is something where we create safety. So there's a, just a cute story about this. A yogi goes walking to go see his master and is through a tiger area, a jungle. And when he's walking over to see his master, he hears this noise behind him and he looks, there's a tiger! And he goes running from the tiger and he finally gets up a tree and the tiger can't follow him up and he almost got eaten by this tiger. And the tiger gets bored and walks away. So he finally gets to his master. And he gets there and there's three other yogis who just barely made it themselves because of the tigers. So they get this teaching from their master, they're very happy. Then he says, okay, now you guys go back to where you came from. And they say, well, we're kind of afraid, because we almost got eaten on our way here. And he goes, but now you'll be OK. He says, see, the tiger, if you're looking in their direction, they know they can't sneak up on you. He's like, so you just have to walk with each one of you looking in one of the four directions, and then no tiger will try to attack you. So one had to look front, one had to look back, one had to face left, one had to face right. So they interlocked their arms with their backs together, and then they marched down, and they, you know, it was like slowly, but they got out of the tiger region marching together that way. No sight of a tiger. So this is how, when you have your attention in the right place, you are making others safe. And it's good to be with a sangha. All right. So we are going to conclude with one more meditation. Again, focus on the third eye. And this is the transmission of irritation. This is going to be a very irritating meditation. Now this is going to be a very good meditation. The Kundalini is going to come up really high and this is a beautiful meditation to inspire you to let go of all irritation and all blame and to be able to connect with the light and the truth of Dharma. So sit up nice and straight, Thank you.

1:39:10
so the the the Oh, so you so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you Thank you all so much. Saturday, we will have another teaching. And this may be the last teaching, I think, on the seventh point of mind training, which would mean that we will have completed the

1:40:55
study of Bodhicitta and Lojong. But, you know, it's kind of an infinite study. You go back again and again through these considerations, through these slogans and these guidelines, and you see them open new dimensions of insight every time. That's why guidelines are better than rules. Because these are actually living teachings that have been created from foreknowledge by enlightened teachers. But we'll see. We'll see if we get through everything next week. But we're going to continue on with the Lojong teachings. And some of my advanced students are going to be sharing their insights about these guidelines and slogans. This will be good. And then we'll be transitioning from the teachings of compassion to the next evolution of teachings, which is very exciting. I shouldn't even be talking about it. It's not nearly ready. I'll tell you about that later. Okay, let's see. I have We are going to spend the weekend before the equinox in Shasta so we're going to do what we call a power trip and This means we go to a place of power a place that has sacred spiritual

1:46:14
energy and

1:46:16
We have meditation sir spiritual energy, and we have meditations there. And so I checked the Siskiyou County, and that's where Mount Shasta is, and there are very, very, very, very few cases of COVID-19 or coronavirus. So it should be a very safe place to go. I forgot what there was. I think in the whole county there was something like 12 cases. So it should be a very, very safe place to go, although we will have many rules and precautions for students who attend this trip. So this will come out from the SangaComms email where we talk about if you're gonna go on this trip, here are all the rules and precautions that you must take. So even though there's not a lot of coronavirus up there, we have to be very careful. So this is a very special opportunity and I've been watching for a long time to see if this would be possible. But this will be the first time since the coronavirus shutdown on March 17th that the U.S. sangha is able to get together. And so we'll be going to probably Panther Meadows. This is the best time of year to go to Panther Meadows, which is a very sacred place for the Native Americans. And we'll be doing is we will be having a 10 a.m. meeting in the mountains. And so you'll be able to call in to our power trip. And then you'll be able to see the mountain, get the teachings and everything, and it'll be kind of nice. For those of you who are going to be coming up on the trip, then later in the evening we'll be going back out when it's dark. So it doesn't make sense for anyone to call in at this time. And for the students who are coming on the trip, in the evening we will do more meditation and we'll be doing what I call the Buddhist magic, which is using the energy of the place and the energy of the time through Buddhist mysticism to create things that we would call miracles. It's a very, very fun, beautiful, and inspiring thing to do, to go on these power trips, especially for these mystical experiences of Buddhist magic. But during the days of the trip, that's when there will be the teachings and the transmissions, but the nights will be the weekend before, because I think the 22nd of September is a Tuesday, and that is the actual time of the equinox. So we're going to be before the equinox, so just entering the equinox transit. And I will have Sangha Khans email you all the details about what dates we're actually having meditations, the whole schedule that we're going to follow when we're there, and then students who are not in the US, you will also get notified of when to call in to the teachings. Okay, So very, very much. So very, very much. Be well.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
