0:00:00
Alright, so we're going to begin with the Kalachakra meditation. We'll sit for about 10 or 15 minutes. So strong focus. So let's just sit in silence. Sit up nice and straight. Let's begin.

0:00:20
And the end. I'm going to try to get a better angle. Okay. Okay. Oh Okay. I'm going to call you back. Okay. Okay, we're good. So today I'd like to give a teaching about giving a teaching. and you are a teacher, you know, your sensei points you to teach, you know, all the belts, the white belts, the yellow belts, the green belts, the red belts, the brown belts, then you become the way. So when there's a yellow belt learning from you and you're teaching them their kata, you are the way of karate. You are proficient in their level of forms, techniques, and you are proficient in all of the techniques up to the level of black belt. So then for the

0:11:19
bell cranks under you, you become the way of karate. It's the same in spirituality. So when you've got your lineage transmission and the teaching transmissions, when you're helping introduction students, beginning students, intermediate students, you are an example of the way. So then it comes down to impeccability. Are you a bad example of the way? way. People learn from bad examples as well. So definitely I've been in karate schools where there's a black belt teaching yellow belts like really crazy I like JKA, I like Shotokan. You can go to a Shotokan dojo and they're very consistent. They have a very consistent form and practice of the art of Shotokan. is helping a yellow belt, they have a lot of impeccability in properly showing them how to be better at the technique and where they're at. So that's very important. I remember when my mentor first started to talk to me about spirituality. We were on a drive from San Francisco to Sacramento where I was doing the martial arts training for the chakra there. She started telling me all sorts of things. I could not keep up. I had no idea. She's talking about the gunas, you know, from the Bhagavad Gita. And she's like, okay, so there's three gunas, and here's what they're like. You know, I'm like, uh-huh. And then she's all, but then inaccessibility is important. She starts telling me about that. She's all like, and ultimately, personal power. So she's telling me all these things and phrases I've never heard of, way over my head. And I'm just like, my head is spinning, just trying to keep up with her. And she does this for two hours up and two hours back. And I'm like, what can I do with this? Nothing. All I can do is say, wow, she knows some weird stuff I totally don't understand. But I hung around. But not everybody will hang around stuff like So there was this guy, Rama Gop, gave us the intro and beginning teachings when we were in New York. And he was teaching whatever was on his mind at the moment. And it could have been some very kind of advanced thing, very particular to our school. And so he's like, no one's showing up, or no one's returning to my classes. And then I went to one of his classes, and he's just talking about all this really, really out there stuff that another ST2 can understand, ST1 can understand. But new people, it's like, this stuff is way out there. We start talking about all of our jargon from different books that we learn from, different teachings that we've gotten, and you expect other people to just know it, to be where you're at? Uh-uh. So it's very important when you're teaching to teach people where they are at. So you've got to know your audience, and you have to teach them where they're at. If you're put into a Shodokan school and you're given yellow belts and orange belts, they're working on a certain kata, you're not going to start teaching them an advanced

0:15:52
kata.

0:15:53
You're not going to go, oh yeah, so it goes like this and like this. Oh, but in this advanced kata, it goes like this. Ooh, I did that too fast. So you don't do that. You teach them where they're at. If you're a good teacher, then maybe you have some insight from your experience where you can convey it to them so that it makes them better faster. It doesn't have to be something like way advanced. Oh, here's what I learned in this black belt kata. Because they're not at that level. So you telling about that doesn't help. So then, at their level, if you're a good teacher, well, if you're a basic teacher, you're competent at teaching them where they're at, but if you think you're really good, then teach them so good with your insight and your presence and your power that it actually really, really helps them. So, not all teachers are good teachers, even if they've been teaching for a number of years. So I want you to be good teachers and not weird teachers. A weird teacher, you know, just gets up in front of people and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, whatever they want to say, wherever they're at. So let's say you're a seventh degree black belt, you call in for meditation, and there's people of all sorts of different places. Lots of white belts, there's someone who's done Ashtanga yoga for ten years, there's somebody who's done Zen Buddhism for ten years, you know, they're all over the place. And then you just get there and say, in my last meditation, Then God talked to me and all this crazy intergalactic magic happened and whatever. And on the dream plane I went into my last incarnation and met myself. Whatever, you can go say whatever you're going to say out of your own high experience and it's really not that helpful for people. So even given a mixed room, like I've done this in Hungary many times, at our open days, I sit there and I feel who's in the room, and then I teach to them. So if you're a good teacher, you can teach with a whole giant room of people, to teach to the yellow belts and green belts, and also to the black belts. So in the same teaching, you could be having a direct communication with everyone where they are at. Fortunately, in our school we have a lot of structure like in Shodokan. So you have to know, okay, I am teaching an introduction class, you know, and I'm going to be teaching people who are new to this system. So I'm going to teach this system properly. I don't care if they have a black belt in Zen. They're here learning chakra meditation, our way. Okay, boom. So So that's an introduction class. Then in the beginning class, you know where they're at. Where are you in the Enlightenment workbook? How are you doing in your meditation? You're teaching them at that level that they're at as they progress through the beginning stage. then job yoga, yoga projects, compassion. So we have a very structured level of courses that people go through. So when you're teaching, you have to be very aware of what you're teaching, what level you're teaching, and then know what the domain of the teaching is, and then teach to that. So we teach to that. Even if there's someone from a higher course, in the Buddhist mysticism course, you are teaching a Buddhist mysticism class. So you teach at that level. Just like in a dodo, you're the black belt, go teach that green belt. You know what level they're at, you know what kata they're on, so you teach that. If you're sparring with a brown belt, let's say, the brown belt knows a certain number of techniques, but let's say as a black belt, you learn that extra special kick, right? So if you beat the black, if you beat the brown belt with your extra special black belt kick, you don't actually help them that much because they don't know that technique. You have to beat them with the techniques that they know. Then they can learn more. So just because you know more is not a better way to teach. The best way to teach is to know where they're at. Teach them where they're at. And if you're a good teacher, it's not that you know more and know more things that are higher, it's that where they're at, you can transform them, help them grow and become powerful and get ahead to their next level. This is very important. It's very, very, very important. Otherwise, you're not going to be a successful teacher. You're going And luckily, we've had some examples of that. I've had some great friends who are not really good teachers, even though they're very advanced. We've had Agni, Kala, and Shiva, for example. So, they don't teach to where people are at. They teach wherever they're at. Whatever, oh you know what I had a, I like to do my Shiva, I had a seeing the other day, came to a new awareness. And it's just this beautiful teaching of some high awareness. Doesn't really have to do with where we're at or what we're going through. It's just an interesting high teaching. Not really integratable. But this is also why, you know, like, after 30 years of teaching, you know, he's got like six students. Because it's too intense. I mean, no one can keep up with where he's at. And he doesn't develop and structure things So then people can't keep up if I was always teaching from my highest point Then I'd be talking about things that don't really develop people You know, you got to come down to where people are at So you can help them if you just if you're way high Which I've been calling Shiva are way high They're like higher than a ladder. And then people will see them and go, wow, that's magical, or that's powerful, or I'm afraid of it, it's too intense, too weird. Or in the best case, wow, that's magical and beautiful, and there's no way I can do So it's like when you're a scuba instructor. You have to remember how it was when you were first taking your mask off for the first time and then putting it back on and clearing. At first, you're like, whoa, this is weird. Or maybe you inhaled some water,

0:23:52
because a lot of people do.

0:23:53
So maybe it was hard for you in the beginning, but at least it was a little weird. I didn't have too much of a problem with it, but I remember the first time in the pool, taking it off and having the water flood my eyes and my nose and mouth.

0:24:13
I'm like, oh, this is different.

0:24:16
And then I put it back on and then I magically just exhale and then it goes away and I've seen other people in the same class have a lot harder times. So when I became a dive master and an instructor, when I'm dealing with people who are having an extremely hard time, you know, taking the mask off, a lot of fear, and then the moment they take it off, they inhale through their nose, I'm all, don't inhale!

0:24:50
I can't help it.

0:24:52
You know, then I can remember what it was like in the beginning. I can have a lot of compassion for them and a lot of awareness for where they're at. And I can teach to that. And if I'm a good teacher, then I help them. But if I'm just like, oh, it's easy. See, just goes like, there you go. OK, you do it. And then they can't do it. What's the matter with you? Then I'm such a, it's so easy for me because I can do it. And for them, it's not easy at all.

0:25:27
It's impossible.

0:25:28
And then we're at an impasse. I'm like, look, I can do it. So easy. And look, I can't do it. You suck. I suck. Yeah, that's what happens. If the teacher's too high and it's just too easy for them, and then they don't know what the problem is with you, and they don't come down to your level and come back to the beginning and have compassion and to teach where the student is at, then you don't learn it. So I've seen lots of instructors just bored out of their minds because a student can't clear their mask. Like, here's how you do it. Showed you how, now you do it. They're all just sitting there afraid to take their mask off. And they're all, oh god, not one of these again. And then they'll be all like, you know what? Maybe this isn't for you. This whole scuba thing, yeah, not going to work out for you. Because you just can't do it. You know, I'm a Scorpio. It's a water sign. Yeah. Now this is something that has happened to one of my dive

0:26:39
masters. When they were first learning, this teacher says,

0:26:44
oh, you're having a hard time? You're a loser. You're never going to be able to succeed at this. This is what happened to one of my diagnostics. So when you're teaching, it's very important to come down to the level of where your students are. Do you know, there's a great, one of the greatest basketball players ever, Michael Jordan. So, you think Michael Jordan was, you know, maybe a prodigy, and just did everything perfectly? Well, no. At one point, his performance in varsity basketball as a junior was so bad. He got kicked off the basketball team. His coach goes, ah, you suck. You're never gonna succeed at this. He kicks him off the team. And then Michael Jordan worked really, really hard. He practiced by himself, practiced, practiced, practiced. Then he, in his senior year, made it back onto the team. And then became one of the greatest basketball players of all time. So if his coach didn't kick him off the team, I mean, he got back on the team. But his coach just said, eh, you suck. He didn't see his potential. And so he kicked him off the team. He didn't want anything to do with it. He was like, you're not doing so good, just go. But if he had looked at his potential and coached him like a good coach would, then he could have gotten Michael Jordan to achieve his potential or greater sooner. So, but what if Michael Jordan had listened to him? You're off the team, you suck. And he's all, that's cool. You know, I could be a garbage man or a landscape artist. Or something, I don't know. He could have been dissuade. No, he worked harder on it. So not everybody's going to work harder on it. If you put someone down or you don't come down to their level, if you put someone down and put someone out, that's definitely not what a teacher should

0:29:17
be doing.

0:29:20
You definitely should always be promoting enlightenment. And if someone's not doing well, then show them how to change. Show them the path to doing it well. And you should always be showing people the powers and the support from the structures in our school. So, hey, take martial arts. Hey, maybe try scuba. Hey, learn computers. All these things are very positive. So directing people to success is very good. Like I said about myself, I was learning computer programming and I was really bad at it. It was really, really, really, really hard for me. And I was very fuzzy when I was trying to learn. I was like, I don't understand the funniest things. I mentioned this before. I was learning DOS and the teacher went over to a filing filing cabinet and said, a file is just like this, a file. And then we put it in, you know, it goes in a folder. So it's a file and it goes into a file cabinet. And I was all like, oh that's what a file is? I'm like, okay, so there's files go into the computer. I really was, it boggled my mind how they got into the computer, but I believed them. I didn't understand. So it was really tough for me to learn tech. And I did have teachers that were just like, you're not going to get this. So my DOS teacher said, yeah, this isn't for you. You have to be very detailed oriented, and I'm all, okay. And then my kobold teacher just flunked me and was like, nah, it's not going to happen. So I definitely had a hard time, but I really wanted to succeed. And they didn't really care. They weren't teaching me where I was at, they were just teaching whatever. They're just saying and talking about stuff they knew. And it was up to me to catch up. But in our school, we're not so much that way. We are focused on teaching people where they're at. And then later on, I didn't give up. Like Michael Jordan, I became one of the best tech people in the universe. Oh no, he wasn't good at tech. But I had a very successful career in technology and I worked on all sorts of cool systems back when computer programming was

0:32:20
easy.

0:32:24
So, we don't want to give up on people, never give up on people, always show them the right way, show them the dharma. It's their choice to take the step, but we always come to where they're at and teach them where they're at. And we never go like the guide master, just watching you try and you never be you never tell someone oh you can't do technology it's impossible you're too whatever because people people people can change Michael Jordan can change become great I changed and I became a good computer programmer did artificial intelligence, business intelligence.

0:33:17
So, it's something that we want to draw out of people,

0:33:21
their greatness. And even if they're struggling in the beginning, struggling with meditation, mindfulness, or work, learning tech, all of these things are where, if you're a good teacher, you help them. You help them with where they're at. You know, oh, so you're struggling to learn tech? Well, here's what you do.

0:33:50
Right?

0:33:51
You give them the right teaching, and then that gets them to go further. It gets them to be more successful. So it's very important. If you find that you're getting bothered with your student's progress, then do some more bodhicitta. You always want to come from a place of compassion. But when you see a student that's stagnant, I mean, we definitely work with structures. So you say, in this structure you go from here to here, and then they don't, then you have to say, for your own well-being and benefit, I have to give you a difficult push and this will push you to jump there. Or you don't want to get pushed and then you can leave. But I'm going to give you the greatest support, but you've got to make it from this belt to this belt. And if you don't want to, that's a different situation. But I'm going to give you all of the support and the correct support to make a shift when you need to make a shift. So teach people where they're at. And be a good teacher. Be clear. Be structured. Be focused. Not all teachers are good teachers. I remember there was a ST2, her name was Heather, and she had a third degree black belt in Ishin Ryu, which is a type of karate. And me and my friend John and I think maybe Shaki and a few others, we wanted to learn from her. We're like, oh, cool, you know karate, can you teach us? Because we want to get a black belt in something. And she was like, sure. So we went out and trained with her. She goes, okay, so you go like this, and then you go like this. And we're like, what was that? And we were already like, you know, black belts in our martial arts. We've been doing martial arts for a number of years. And we just, the way she just showed something, like, and then the other side. And then I'm like, huh? Like, we're good at like following all sorts of kung fu moves. But we just couldn't keep up with her. So it took us like a long time. And then she's like, oh, let me, let me break it down one step at a time. So for her, it was so automatic. She just knew how it worked. And then for us, we were like, how do we follow, even though we were highly trained martial artists, it was something different. And for the beginners, they just couldn't even catch on. So when you're really good, you have to be a good teacher and be able to break it down for people in a way that they can understand. And you can't be using your black belt mind and bring it to a yellow belt level. You can't be like, no. You have to teach people very simply where they're at so that they can develop. It's very important. So you know, with like Shiva and Agni Kala, like they gave very, very high teachings to But they were not teachings that you could really incorporate very well. And so they were just wherever they're at, whatever they're going through, they wanted to share it. Which is interesting, but you can't really develop through random or somebody else's highest teachings. You can't keep up with them, or it just ends up being very random. So this is good that you guys have had experience with it. So it's like, you know, you guys come from a structured school, so when Adi and Khaled goes, the way is have tantric sex and have babies. And you guys go, oh, yes, that means we can have sex, make a baby. And I'm like, no. They're not teaching in a structured way. Teaching wherever they're at. And that's why they can't keep students because no one can keep up with them. They're just going through their highest experience and sharing it. That is irresponsible as a teacher. You must know who your audience is and you must teach them where they're at. If you are a good teacher, it will be shown in an effect where they're at becoming stronger, getting to the next step. It's just a structured way, a structured practice, just like a karate doctor. It's not the wild, wild west of enlightenment. It's the wild, wild east. These are ancient, you know, eastern practices, structures. That's to, as a teacher, have the proper appearance. So right now I like this thing where I wear little Chinese shirts, because I know I'm only talking to, I'm speaking to and teaching dress in some, you know, Asian way and I like my little tiger eye mala beads. So I know I'm talking to my students. This is a spiritual kind of dress. I have a shaved head. I like it. It makes braiding my hair easy in the morning. So this is my way of dressing. And it works. Now, remember I was going to do a big tour of Europe. So I was like, okay, in my first tour of Europe, I dressed like this, an Asian guy. And then I just looked like a Buddhist monk. So I wear this, I look like some Tai Chi guy. But if I wear my Buddhist robes I just look like a monk. And so people say, all right, yeah, he's cool, but he's like, they just look at me and say, because he's some traditional looking spiritual guy, at that level and we're at a human level. And so we can't reach that level just by appearance. So when you're teaching people, you have to know who you're talking to and address in a way where you become accessible to them just from appearance. So seeing this, I was changing my look. And my look for Europe was going to be, yes, something like this, but open with a t-shirt, spiritual t-shirt under it, like a dragon going clack, right at the heart chakra. And so that way, it takes me away from looking like some traditional spiritual person to, if I'm wearing a t-shirt with a little dragon on it, or an OM symbol or something, then it definitely is, I'm a spiritual guy, but I'm not a monk. And then that way, they don't just perceive there's this big chasm between my teachings and where they're at. Then they go, oh, some spiritual guy, maybe I can reach up a little bit. Yeah, it's important. So the way that you present yourself is very important. Know who your audience is. So if you're teaching introduction meditation, it's very important to know what you're going to look like. Now if you're teaching in America, yeah, you can wear something a little bit more traditional because Americans accept that. They don't, especially in California, but probably all over America. In America, when we see someone wearing robes, we don't think that their teachings are totally different than our lives. We're actually very interested to learn from those teachings. In Europe, they were more fixed, where they would see, yeah, that's really cool, but I don't believe I can get up there. So that was the way it was, especially in Germany and Austria. So that's why I got the t-shirts and the kimono tops. So I would be like, oh, hey, I'm a spiritual guy, but I'm not too spiritual. So then you can reach the teachings. So you've got to really put some thought into what your presentation is. Now some people when they wear something like this, like what I'm wearing, when they wear it they look ridiculous. For me it works. It's very fitting. It just is. So find your presentation if you're teaching introduction meditation. Find a look that is spiritual-chic or spiritual-traditional, but something that looks good to you, something where you feel you can bring across the teachings in a way that new people can accept them. If you dress too weird, it will turn people off. You have to dress in a certain way and you have to reflect on it. What do you wear that conveys, I'm a teacher of meditation and I take it very seriously, I'm spiritual but not a jerk. So, yeah, it's very important for you to reflect on how you come across into beginners when you're teaching introduction meditation. When you're teaching beginning meditation, it's an extension of that. You're still working with someone who's kind of new, so they have to keep seeing you in a certain way. So the way you present yourself is very important. When I first met Rama, he was always coming to the meditation seminars always in a tuxedo. So we had formal. So, you know, the first dozen times I saw him was always tuxedo, tuxedo, tuxedo. having more casual meetings, and then I was wearing suits. Well, we would wear suits when we saw him. He would wear a suit. So, suit, suit, suit.

0:45:46
And then, me too.

0:45:50
When we were doing the first Cowell Theater teachings, I wore it to make a certain point. I wore it and I played Canyons of Light all the time. And then it became a very accessible way for the students to be able to reach me. So they were like, well when we think of Sambara, a very simple thing comes to mind. He's wearing black Chinese clothes, he's bald, and then there's this Canyons of Light muse. So this became a symbol, the way that I dressed was a very accessible symbol for them and the music was an accessible condition for them to be able to reach my spirit and my teachings. So the way you dress is important. And then during the job yoga teachings, it was radically different. I made a change and a transformation. We're talking about job yoga and I start wearing a suit, which was just really funny. But it also creates a shift, so I wanted that shift. It creates a different tonal, and it's showing that my teaching from the way I appear is that spirituality can be in business form. So when you're dressing, the way that you dress is meaningful. So I'd say, if you're teaching this basic Buddhism, mysticism, beginning class, you want to have a spiritual look, something spiritual. It might be just a t-shirt with an OM sign on it, maybe some Maldives, whatever it is. But find your authentic spiritual expression and bring that. And if and show something different. Because in what you wear, there's a teaching. So be very, very aware of what you wear. And how you present yourself. So if you're doing weird things, my neck, there, crap. It's kind of weird. So there's this guy who's the leader of the Falun Gong, which is this Chinese cult, yeah, a sect. They're like a group of spiritual people, and he's a very, very high advanced spiritual person, very strong occult powers. He teaches qigong, breathing exercises and meditation. It's a very, very positive, beautiful program. After Rama died, a couple of his students started getting into the Falun Gong. They were like, oh, you come over to one of our meetings and we'll see a video of the master. So the master's sitting there

0:49:42
and he's like all,

0:49:44
he starts talking, then he's all, and then he's talking and he goes, he's talking, then he's all, while he's talking, he's just like doing weird things, like clearing his nose that way and then spitting every once in a while while he's giving a Dharma talk. And I'm all like... while I'm watching it. So culturally, that was not a big deal. Culturally, the Chinese wouldn't notice that. But as a Westerner, it was weird to me. So if you have some weird tick, like, oh, my neck always hurts, so I gotta go like that, people will be like, why are you going like that? Or if you have some cultural thing where spitting is normal for you, then be careful of what you do. Kind of just sit there and be still. It's also really lame when someone has to drink water. When I'm teaching about... Oh, I'm just going to have some chocolate. Firecrackers, the best chocolate. But I don't eat chocolate anymore. Okay. So anyway, my voice might get a little hoarse or something, and I'll just try to clear it. Right? without having to go for water. This is a big weird interruption and I see people do it a lot. Well, yeah, lots of teachers are doing that.

0:51:52
They're like, and then enlightenment is...

0:51:54
What was I saying?

0:51:55
Anyway, going to something else. OK, so don't do stuff like that, unless you have to. You've got that little itch, and it's going to make you cough forever. Then drink the water. But if you can, don't start putting stuff in your face. And then also sometimes your blood sugar gets a little low, and then you go, oh, what do we do? We always have a little chocolate when blood sugar's low. Well, if you're teaching, you need to bring your kundalini up so that you don't have to go and get a piece of chocolate and start eating in front of people. Messing with the wrapper, pulling it out,

0:52:45
chewing on it.

0:52:46
Oh, so spicy.

0:52:47
Oh, it's got pop rocks in it.

0:52:50
Firecracker. Bye, chow. You know, so you're all.

0:52:53
So eating and drinking in front of people while you're giving a teaching,

0:52:57
try not to do that.

0:52:58
Eat your sugar before you teach. Drink some water before you teach. And hopefully you can get through the teaching without having to do it again. It's good. Another thing is when you're going to be meditating with people, an introduction and beginning, especially, but also at any time, if you're giving a teaching, some students might open their eyes and look at you. Because they might be all, oh, gosh, I'm thinking all these thoughts. And I just see pitchforks and skeletons dancing in hell when I close my eyes. And they're, oh, I've got to open my eyes. They make me go through all sorts of stuff. And then when they watch you, they're like, okay, I've got to just have my eyes open. And if you're doing weird things, then they trip out. So if you're like going really high and to the side, so I see some of you do this. It's not good practice. Because the Kundalini goes straight up. So the Kundalini will be going over here, and you just kind of miss your third eye. So, it's important to sit up straight. So this is important. Yeah, so it's important to sit up straight. Because if you're going off to the side, then people are like, what's going on? What's going on with that? That we're going with meditation The other thing that's very important is don't tilt your head some people go Don't tilt your head right you have to be parallel to the ground. Okay, then go back and go to the side. Ready to meditate? You look like you're asleep. So when you're meditating, be very still. Even if really high states. I was watching one of our recent teachers and there's this famous thing in India and China. It's like when you start going into Samadhi look which is this. Sometimes they stick their tongue out. But they're definitely like, oh my gosh. So, don't do that! It looks weird! So the students like, if you're doing that, and then the students like, I understand. But you have to just sit there and be serene. And I know there might be a lot of Kundalini, you might be going to high states, but if you're teaching, try to sit up straight. And instead of having physical movement of the face, and let the energy go higher. This is very important. Because if you're, and some people when they teach go like this. What the fuck? So you're like feeling all this energy and going with the energy, you start making these weird faces. So you're like concentrating, something's happening. You're in some weird rollercoaster with your face. Also, don't do that! When the student opens their eyes and they see you guys making weird-ass faces, they trip out. So you have to be able to sit up straight. This is very Zen. They don't make faces in Zen. They just sit there and meditate. So no turning the head up. I know sometimes when Kamalini goes up, people want to turn their head up. Don't do it. Parallel to the ground. Fixed position. Don't go. Go ahead and do it. When you're teaching, at any moment a student might open their eyes and look at you. You shouldn't be going like this. You shouldn't be... you should control yourself. energy go up and not in weird eye movements and weird facial gestures. All of the eye movements and facial gestures, they actually take away, they take the energy, the spiritual energy out into the physical where you make faces. So don't do that. Just sit perfectly still.

0:58:50
I know it's funny, because when you feel a lot of energy, you want to start moving. You want to start moving.

0:58:56
You're like, yeah, this meditation's good. So, Rama called these things kriyas, physical movements. So some people when they when this is not good either some people when when they're teaching or when they start to get energy they go like this. They get this jolt. And it could just be that you're sitting there meditating and you're like that or something. Don't do that. And also, don't do that. And Kriyas are also, some people, fortunately not in my sangha, well, maybe a little bit, they make noises.

0:59:51
They'll go, oh!

0:59:52
I don't know, they'll squawk or scream or all sorts of weird noises. So some people here might like to go, don't do that. Don't do that in your meditation. And definitely don't do that if you're going to teach. When you're teaching, you're an example of meditation. And meditation should be where it's a focus on the internal energy only. We don't manifest it in physical gestures. We don't manifest it in going turning our head up to the side, going to the side. We don't manifest it in going... and we don't do that.

1:00:50
OK.

1:00:51
So there. I think it's important for you to understand. No, it's really important. You know, you'll lose people if they open their eyes and see you doing weird things.

1:01:03
What is that?

1:01:06
OK.

1:01:06
So teaching. So, when you're a proper teacher, you don't do weird things. You're not teaching at your fifth degree black belt level to a yellow belt. You're showing yellow belts how to get to the orange belt, not how to get to the third degree black belt. They're teaching people where they're at. It's very important. It's a teaching. And when you're a teacher, you have the transmissions of the teacher, then you are the way. It's a beautiful thing. Now when you're in Shodokan class, you don't start teaching what you learned in Judo. You just teach perfectly the technique of the yellow belt in Shodokan. You don't start teaching the green belt. Oh yeah, this is pretty cool. But there's also a judo throw. And it's very important for you not to get confused. Because we've seen lots of teachers. We've seen Adhikala and Shiva. They're examples in one way. But we've also been to India, seen masters there. Some of you have seen Gangaji here, or Amma. So there's lots of teachers in lots of ways. And as an advanced student, it's fine, but you have to remember that in this system, which is a very constructive system, that you are the way to enlightenment because you're following magical structure that started in 1984. The Rama is an ancient Buddha for many lokas. He really knew what he was doing. He created a powerful sangha and many of his students attained enlightenment from his structures and his teachings. If we can carry them on in the proper structure, the proper way, then many of you will be enlightened. And you will enlighten many people. You become the way. It's wonderful. to Amma and say, Oh, I hugged her and I had a really high state of mind, so now I'm going to start hugging beginning students. I'll be like, Okay, come to my satsang, meditate with me. Okay, come here and hug me. Yeah, just feel it, feel it, let it go. Or whatever. or whatever, you know, we appreciate what we learn from these other teachers because it is very powerful forms of enlightenment. And we can, on our own, enjoy those dimensions and go into high states from them, and that's wonderful. However, when you teach in the Shodokan school, you don't start showing Judah. You have to be very clear about teaching people where they're at, and teaching them from a perspective of the structure of the school that you're in. And that seems like an easy thing. But people get confused. Well, people get confused. You're like, oh wow, I found some different spiritual book that we don't really focus on or read or hear. Maybe it's a good book. And you start, and they say, oh, wait a second, going outside the structure, just into something that I think is super cool. It happens very naturally, because you want to help people the best that you can. And then you go, wow, what about this book? Or about this thing that the Maharishi said? Or whatever. You have to be very clear on what you're teaching in what class, where people are at teaching in a structured way. When you're teaching from the school, this group of people, I think you guys can be very successful at liberation for yourself and also helping many, many people on the pathway to enlightenment, so that they can get out of suffering, develop themselves in these wonderful structures, and then liberate. So this is the way of a teacher in a lineage. kind of like make up your own system. You're like, I did Tai Chi and Karate, so now I'm going to create up my own thing called Tai Ratae. I don't know. Or Karate Chi Chung. I don't know. It makes something up. I've met a lot of teachers who've made up their own systems. It's Northern California, where they're just like, oh yeah, I took this and this and now I've made up my own martial arts. It didn't really catch on. So these people who kind of make up their own synthesis of martial arts, it's not as powerful as these great masters. Like some guy makes up John Kwando, his name's John. And then if you compared his spiritual and martial arts power next to Funakoshi Ueshiba, the founder of Shotokan, founder of Aikido, not nearly as strong. Not nearly as strong, even though he got a black belt in each of those arts, let's say, and he makes up his own thing. Then he goes his own route out of the structure of Shodokan, out of the structure of Aikido. He just makes up his own thing. It's not nearly as powerful. Those great masters created great systems. Brahma was a great master and what we've been effective at is learning his great system, becoming experts, black belts, lineage holders, teachers in this great system. So this is You are one with Rama's teachings when you are an expert at these structures. And then when someone comes to you, then Rama's energy comes through you, and my energy comes through you. And this powerful mandala that Rama created activates, Brahma, creative, activates. And there's thousands of dimensions of support that come through, amazing light comes through. And this is being very selfless, not being any self, meeting people where they're at, helping them where they're at. If you have insight, you'll help them more where they're at. A lot of power and light comes through you when you have that impeccability in the system and selflessness to help people in the structure where they're impeccability in the system and selflessness to help people in the structure where they're at. Okay, thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
