0:00:00
Hello everyone. So now we come to it. Alright, so we're going to, we're going to meditate together. We're going to do the Kala Chakra meditation. And this is a very good opportunity because you guys get this wonderful thing, you get to level set with me. So sometimes like if you're just kind of off on your own, you're practicing the Kala Chakra, you know, meditation, and you're kind of going through thoughts and trying to like feel out different dimensions. Am I doing it right? I don't know. And then the good thing is here, when you do it with me, as long as you have pretty good focus, doesn't have to be the best, you guys are getting a very clean impression of perfect practice. So you just have to sit there and do your meditation and pooh, pooh, pooh, all the dimensions align, everything's great, it's perfect. So this is good. Yeah, for us, ST1s and ST2s, like, we got some, you know, like Rama died not too long after he gave us the advanced teachings, so we had some in the beginning, and then we're off on our own, being weirdos. So the fortunate thing for you guys is that you can level set in this meditation. All right, let's do it. So we're going to sit in silence. We'll sit for about 15 minutes, I don't know, some period of time. So just sit up nice and straight and do your thing. Boom! Right? You guys are advanced students. So you guys should be like whatever. Meditation is just like the easiest thing. It's the most natural thing. All right, so we're gonna sit. Let's begin. Okay.

0:02:36
I'm going to go ahead and get started. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get started. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. You're welcome. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Good. Enlightenment is real, and so can you. Enlightenment you. Enlightenment is real, and you can become enlightened, aware of the enlightenment within

0:14:27
you. We have this thing called Buddha Nature. Buddha said, there's enlightenment in everything. In the flowers, in my rug, on the chair you're sitting in. Everything is enlightenment. And so are you. very authentic and very aware of that enlightened principle, Bodhi, within us. It's not fake. There's no way to fake it. We do it. I was in Boston once on a sales call selling software and the client who I was working with, he said, hey let's go out to dinner. I was like, okay. He took me to the best Italian restaurants I've ever been in on the East Coast, because they're all bad, except for this one. This was good. So this place, they made house-made spaghetti. It was so soft and so delicious. It's way better than spaghetti. It was really good spaghetti. And I was like, wow. I eat in New York all the time at Italian restaurants, and this is just amazing. And he's all, because it's healthy, it's spaghetti. It's the right kind of spaghetti. It's authentic spaghetti. You are authentic spaghetti. But that must be your practice. There's another time I was in Boston, I went to, I think they had a place called Freshfields, which later became Whole Foods. So it was like Whole Foods. And I went there, and I found this weird package in the vegetable section and it was mung bean pasta. And I was like, huh, this is weird. And I was like, and I thought back to that amazing spaghetti at that Italian restaurant. I was like, wow, that was good. And I was looking at this and I was like, you know, this is a fake pasta in Boston. It's a fake noodle in Boston. Can you have a fake noodle in Boston? No, a fake noodle in Boston is an impasta. So you can't have that.

0:19:07
That's not real.

0:19:08
And if you eat it, you know it's not real. So we become very authentic in advanced practice. There's a lot of fake noodles out there, lots of them, right? Yeah, but we have to be real. Gotta be real, it's gotta be real. If it's fake, it ain't real. So we have to be real about our practice. And it's most important to know that enlightenment is within you. It's most important to know that you can become aware of the enlightenment within you. I was talking about today how when you go into aversion and desire, it keeps you in the yin and yang of things. It enforces self and then you look at life and you totally can't see the enlightenment that is already we have to be real. Like, the principle, number one in advanced practice, is to be able to say, is the ability to say, I know I can be enlightened, I know I have Buddha nature, You got to be real pasta, a real spaghetti, right? You got to be real. And then when you know that, then there's an authenticity to your practice. If you don't know that, if you don't believe in your own Buddha nature. So you first have to believe in your enlightenment. And believe me, I mean, that's what the Buddha said, or something. So, you really have to, in your heart, connect with the fact that enlightenment is real, and enlightenment is within you. And so, accept that. Because if you don't accept that, then no amount of meditation is going to bring you to it. You're just going to be existing in the world of the self. And then, the trickiest thing is the second awareness, the advanced teachings, which is don't stop at anything. Any place that you stop is going to be within karma, and it will be not satisfying. You'll still experience karma, you'll still ego and self-suffering. So sometimes you get to a place where you say, oh, well, I want this. When you identify something that you want, then you need to say, is that enlightenment? And if that's not enlightenment, do I want that more than enlightenment? Because if you choose a desired experience, you're going to settle for that and be there. So if your self is drawn to a sex or money or position or something, if you see yourself getting fixated on something, like this is what I want, this is what I want, this is what I want, you need to ask yourself, if I'm going in that direction, is that a karma? Is that a place I want to be? Or do I want enlightenment? So this is the place where I've seen most advanced students settle. They said, oh I got a relationship, I got a bunch of money, I got a car or whatever, anything, whatever. They got something that was a desire and then they stopped pushing beyond that. So it's very important to start out early and often and look at what your desires are, what you're drawn to, and say, is this enlightenment? And if it's not, and you're really drawn to it, it's a karma that's going to stop you. And if you say, no, I'm not going to be stopped, I want to go higher, I want to go for enlightenment, then you'll go beyond it. It's possible to go beyond all karmas. So that's what the Kala Chakra empowerment is all about. And you guys have to work for it, man. You guys worked for it. We did like 20 years of yoga, because I didn't have the ability to, like Rama was able to lift his students up, because we kind of like failed in yoga, and he was strong enough to lift us up. But you guys had to do the work, and you did the work. And that's why, with that tremendous momentum in your yoga, karma yoga, it lifts you above karma in the Kala Chakra. So you guys have been very successful in your yoga businesses, very successful. Very successful in your careers. I've got lots of black belts, lots of dive masters. Like the core strengths, disciplines of the school you guys have excelled in. And these things are what have created the momentum for you to get the Kala Chakra empowerment and to come up above karma. The place where it's your choice. Karma usually crushes you, even good karma. But you're at a place where you can direct your mind to enlightenment. If you're stuck in karma, observe what you're drawn to. I want this. I want that. Is that enlightenment? Is that karma? You have a choice. Before, you can choose something else. But this is the most important thing, I think. First, you have to know you can be enlightened. But then, after that, the most subtle place is, what are you settling for an idea, a thought, a desire, a situation, a blah blah? It's gonna be karma. So don't settle. If you don't settle in your meditation, your meditation goes very, very high. But if you settle in your thoughts and feelings, then in your meditation, it's gonna be difficult. But if you first say, I can be enlightened, I know it. I feel within me. Two, I'm not going to settle for anything else. Oh, look, that's a nice piece of meatloaf. But I don't have to have it. then when you meditate, your meditation can go very, very, very, very high. And then, you know, a little bit of, I'm not sure, I sort of think I could be enlightened, I sort of kind of want that meatloaf, and then meditation is where you kind of figure it out, and the meditation technique is strong, but if you can say, I know I can be enlightened, I know I don't need that meatloaf, and I'd rather have enlightenment than the meatloaf. Then your meditation goes very, very strong, fast, powerful. This meditation technique is extreme and cool. Now, if your meditation sucks, enjoy it. It happens, even in the advanced practice. I remember Kundalini confided within me something that I'm going to betray her trust on, only because it helps you. She's like, for like two years after the Kala Chakra, she's like, my meditations were horrible. I was like, oh really? She's like, terrible! But then it all worked out in a really good way. Now, let's take, what's that guy's name? Arnold Schwarzenegger? The President of America? Or whatever, just kidding. Let's take him at a time early on in his interest in doing, you know, whatever. What do you call that? Muscle pumping. Okay, now, at some point he had like little skinny arms. And he was all, oh, it's hard. Oh, it's difficult. Right? But then he at some point became very, very strong. And he had big muscles, looked like mine. So here's the thing. If you have a meditation that you think is a bad meditation, first of all, we never judge our meditations, especially in the advanced practice. But you might have a meditation that you think is a bad meditation. Like I, before the advanced teachings, I thought my meditations were horrible. But this is the thing that Kundalini said. She said, my meditations were horrible. And now she's like, I could look back and even the worst meditation where I was struggling and having all this trouble was extremely important for my enlightenment. It made me stronger. So Arnold Schwarzenegger is going, I'm a little German guy from Vienna or wherever, and then he's all, and then he's all, oh, it's so hard and I really suck, it's hard to, you know, to do the weights thing. made him extremely strong. So, don't judge your meditation, really don't. So, Kundalini, for two years in the advanced practice, she was just like, oh God, it was terrible. And then all of a sudden, she's like, pfff, pfff. So, even if you think your meditations suck then don't listen. Don't judge it. Just keep doing it. Know that enlightenment... find the awareness that enlightenment is within you. I'm like, if I became enlightened, you can become enlightened. That's what Rama said to us, and it's true. So enlightenment is within you. Don't settle. When you find yourself angry, you gotta go, whoa, am I settling for a state of anger? Or am I gonna go to enlightenment? Find yourself sad and depressed? Find yourself stuck in the world, and the world sucks, and Donald Trump America, whatever? It's really tough. It's really toxic out there. But this is why you have to say none of this. No karma, no karma, no karma. You got to go all the way. You have to believe in the enlightenment. You have to go for it. And then, even if your meditation totally sucks, it'll get you there. Believe that you can be enlightened. Don't stop at anything. And then, even if your meditation sucks, I guarantee it'll get you there.

0:33:16
Ah Shazam, okay

0:33:20
And now

0:33:22
What do they say at the end of

0:33:24
Is it the end of? the daily show our moment of Zen or is at the end of the Colbert hour, the moment of Zen. Well, whatever. Anyway, now a moment of Zen, which is basically

0:33:46
Okay. All right. Good. Good job, everyone. Pleasure sitting with you. I'm going to go out for some spaghetti. Good job, everyone. Pleasure sitting with you. I'm going to go out for some spaghetti. Okay, thank you so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
