0:00:00
All right, so you guys are doing a really good job with the Lojong teachings. I'm very, very, very happy about the teachings. Very, very bright, very powerful, and insightful. So I'm enjoying the Lojong teachings. So you guys are doing a good job. Some things to um, take off your headphones. So the reason that we're doing a video is so that you are visibly appearing to the people on zoom.

0:00:32
Right.

0:00:32
And, um, and so when you're talking, you don't actually need your headphones on. So you should take them off. Otherwise you look like a video droid or something like I am talking to you from the future or something. So take off your headphones and that's good. You guys are dressing nicely, presenting well. You have a nice background. And so it's very good. You guys are doing a good job with the Lojong teachings. So we will continue Lojong teachings. It's very exciting. This is one of the steps that you guys are going to have in furthering your teaching, the teachings of the teachings. So this is going very well. Let's see, for advanced students. What is my cautionary tale? My cautionary tale is don't ego out. It's really funny. You have to say it. Even though you're an advanced student, you have to be humble. You can't say, I have reached the advanced stage and then that's it. That would be settling for a certain condition over enlightenment. So even if you have the advanced teachings, you can't just say, that's the end. I will now go my way and be an egotistical jerk. You have to say, I'm going to take these teachings and I'm going to become enlightened, right? So, don't give up at this point. It's a really funny thing. So the ego is a tricky thing. The ego is the stupidest person I've ever met. And the ego does silly things. And if you listen to the ego, then you're an idiot. Right? So we're trying to get the higher self to wake up and say, hey, I'm not going to listen to the ego. Ego's so stupid. You know, it's funny, all of the teachings in the West are teachings of the Western mind getting an Eastern philosophical spiritual teaching and going, wow, that's so interesting and insightful. And that's like, and then from the enlightened point of view, I'm talking to a bunch of dummies, telling them something simple, and they think it's amazing. Wow. That's an amazing breakthrough. I had this incredible insight. And the Zen masters just all telling you how it is. So, you're an idiot, and I say, stop being an idiot. And you go, wow! So that's the point of view of spiritual teachings. Because the spiritual teachings are very basically, this is the truth. Pull your hand out of the Oh, yay!" You know, stuff like that. So, the ego's tricky. The ego wants to give up sometimes, right? The ego goes, oh, I can't meditate. I sit there, I try, and I just have thoughts, so I give up. And this is why we have a very basic beginning teaching, which is, don't judge your meditation. Don't judge your meditation. Just meditate the best you can for the sake of just meditating the best you can. But if you sit there and say, in the beginning, you're a beginner, you know, I don't know, I just have thoughts and I can't stop thoughts and I can't learn to meditate, then you'll never meditate. You'll quit. And then if you're an advanced student and you say, I got the advanced teachings and I'm doing the advanced meditation and I can't and I don't like it and it doesn't work for me, then you're going to be judging your meditation and then you'll quit. Or you'll fall off track and not attain enlightenment. You have to meditate without judgment. And that's a part of, in the beginning stage, how to establish yourself on the pathway to enlightenment. And in the advanced stage, it's how to detach yourself from ego altogether. It's not that hard. You just have to stop the self from judging and stop the self in its perception. Just meditate. Just meditate. Meditation works. Take it from Buddha. It works. Don't judge it. And despite what the ego will tell you, meditation works and the structures in the advanced teaching are miraculously powerful and really work. So, don't listen to yourself, don't listen to the ego, just meditate. The ego is tricky, so, you know, this is where I've gotten the advanced teachings and now I am supreme! I will go my own way and I will go elsewhere and do such and such, you know, things like that. Now I will open my own dojo. My name is Ron and I will teach Ron-do, which is the way of Ron. My name is John, I will teach John-quando, which is the way of John, or whatever, right? John-jitsu, there we go. So this is what a lot of people might think. They might go into this egotistical way and get confused. So don't do that. That would be an ego trap. And it's a silly ego trap to get into. You know, obviously when you're in a dojo, even if you are a brown belt, there's your sensei and upper belts who are stronger. And when you can see that, you know, you're not at a level of mastery, there's still something to work on. Your teacher could still teach you things. That's not a place to quit and start your own dojo. You're like, start your own martial arts or something like that. So don't let that trick get you, the trick of the ego. That's silly. Have some humility. Let's see, the other trick of the ego is where you say, it's another one where you say, I

0:08:03
can't.

0:08:04
So it might be that you got your brown belt and you got your last kata. And if you get your basai down perfectly, then that's the last kata that you have to learn. And then if you do that right, then black belt. So you're like, you're working on the kata, you learn the kata, you're supposed to do it like thousands of times, you're supposed to get to a certain level of perfection and for you to get your black belt. But you do it a few times, you know what it is, and you go, it's not powerful, or it's not enough. And then you go over and see some judo techniques. And you say, wow, that judo looks cool. Actually, that might be better. So then you leave your karate, you leave your, you know, your, your kata, and then you go over to a Judo school and then you start from the beginning. Now, this is a critical time. I saw this with a lot of Ram Rinpoche students. So what happened was, he taught them the advanced teachings. And then when he went away, then a lot of them went elsewhere and did other things. They were like, oh, I can't do it. So therefore, I'm going to look at Judo. I'm going to look at, you know, Krav Maga or something, right? Some other teacher, some other way. There's a million, you know, different books, teachers, things out there that say, oh yeah, this is the way to enlightenment. This is the way to enlightenment. And if you sit there and you're not taking the teachings to go for enlightenment, you're not going for it, then you'll say, well, maybe I'll do it another way. Now, that's a critical stage. You've gotten the advanced teachings. This is the time to completely go for enlightenment. And this would be like in a karate dojo, you've gotten all the the kata teaching, all the teachings, and now it's the time to push all that way, to do the last thing, to get the rank, right? And you know, I don't know what that is, maybe it's, you know, perfect the kata, maybe it's break some boards, maybe it's win a fight, you know, in a karate dojo it could be certain things. You've got to get it to a certain level. But in a Shotokan dojo, or something like that, in a real dojo, it's not wishy-washy, you might be a black belt, you did enough, a little bit. The sensei, to give you your black belt, says you've gotten to that level. And then in enlightenment, it's for real. It's not even the sensei saying you got there or not. It's you got there. You know, you like, you like let go of ego clinging, you got free, the self dissolved in nirvana. So it's a real thing. So if you have the advanced teachings, this is the time through the structure of the school, you've developed yourself to this period, this area, right here, right now where you can actually do it. You could go for enlightenment. There have been other people at this time who went for it. The same place where you are now, with the teachings that you have now, they took the teachings and they went for it and they became enlightened. I was one of them. But there's others, right? A lot of you have seen them. Shiva, Mandala, Turiya, right? So it's like, this is something real. So if you go for enlightenment here right now, everything that you got, go for it, then enlightenment can happen. But if you say, oh, I'm going to do that. Or you find some guru online, you know, and then, oh, guru online says do this, then you can go and do that. But it will be like going from close to your black belt in a karate dojo to white belt in another dojo. And maybe you'll move up a little faster because you're a brown belt, but the critical point is to go to get that black belt. The critical point is get enlightenment. Once you get enlightenment through one structure, then you can jump over into Judo or Krav Maga and you can see enlightenment there too. But if you don't really push it for enlightenment at this moment, if you don't just say, everything that I've ever done has got me to this moment. And my teacher is saying, this can bring me to enlightenment. And my teacher is an example. And there's other students who've gone through the same structures who are examples. I'm gonna take this on now. I'm gonna go for enlightenment. And then if you say at this critical moment, nah, I'm gonna do something else. I heard a different way. I'm gonna try something else. Everything else. Then you won't push through. And so Ramakrishna has a really important simile for this. It's digging a well. So if you start digging a well and you go, nothing's happening, I don't get any water. So I'm going to try over here." And then you start digging a well somewhere else, and then don't get any water. So you try somewhere else, and somewhere else, and somewhere else. You're not going to get to water. You're going to just keep trying different spots, right? So he says, dig deep. Keep going until you get to water. Now this is a beautiful simile, because if you go deep enough into the self, you'll go through the self. If you go deep enough in meditation, you'll stop thoughts. If you go deep enough in bodhicitta practice, you'll go into compassion. So if you really practice the Dharma, if you take the advanced teachings, you will become enlightened. But if you say, hmm, I'm not getting anything out of this, digging, there's no water, maybe I'll go try something else. That's the trick of the ego. Gotta try somewhere else. Gotta go shop for another Buddha. Gotta go read another book, gotta do another thing. There's actually nothing to do. There's just enlightenment. Go for enlightenment. If you dig deep enough in the self, you find, oh, there's the Buddha nature. It's there, it's not somewhere else. And you've developed yourself in a certain system. This is a system, a way, a structure, a dojo, where you do certain exercises, certain kadas, certain things, right? And by doing those things, you get to that level where you can jump into the black belt, where you can push for enlightenment. So, to let the ego trick you and say, yeah, it's probably somewhere else, that's a cop-out. And that's at a critical stage, giving up or starting over, just going back into karma. So, I recommend, don't do that. Don't do that So we have something special that we're developing here with the Buddha Dojo and what this is is it's a it's a structure a more profound powerful structure for Taking the Dharma Making the Dharma stronger, making it available to more people, and participating in this Dharmic structure. It's a very, very... This is the next level thing. before kind of how things started in Buddhism. They started with Buddha going, bing, enlightenment. And then Buddha taught people. And they became enlightened. And there was this growth of Buddhism. And then there was more enlightenment, more teachings. And then there was ashrams instead of wandering. And then there were, then finally there was this thing called Nalanda. Nalanda was, it's called the first Buddhist university. But Nalanda was a lot more like the Egyptian and Atlantean mystery schools than any of the other structures. So what we're creating in the Buddha Dojo is actually Nalanda. It's like a Buddhist mystery school. And so this is something that is very, very, very strong to be a part of, to participate in, to learn from, and to actually help administer, to be a teacher, to be a student, to participate in this, is something much, much more powerful

0:17:44
than what we've done before.

0:17:46
So this is a very powerful time. Now I'd like to give a little presentation on the Buddha Dojo, just to give you some more information on our plans going forward. And these plans are coming together and we're still probably going to work on them. But we are, after the winter solstice, we're going to do this thing. We're going to raise this thing and make it so. So everyone who's participating in this yoga right now we're, we're, we're like crafting it. And then, after the solstice, we're going to, we're gonna let it, let it be. Okay, so we have a presentation here. which is this ancient school in northern India where many enlightened teachers got together and they taught. So this is something that is stronger than one action. It's where there's a powerful participation of many enlightened beings where we can offer the Dharma to others, but we have a strong structure and being part of that structure is enlightening to us. So the Sangha Dharma for the STXs, that means new students to come, right? But it also means existing students. It also means advanced students. And also what Rama referred to, he referred to the old students as fossils. He's like, you guys are not only dinosaurs, you guys are fossils. He's calling the F2 ones fossils, it was so funny. Anyway, so we're in the Buddha Dojo. Buddha Dojo is our marketing, right? We're making it the Buddha Dojo because it's kind of like catchy. It's Buddha and Dojo and those two things together, kind of interesting and fun. But in the heart of this thing, we're really building this golden pyramid. It's very Egyptian and it is something that is akin to the Dharma structure of the first Buddhist University in Melanda, and it's something where We were able to help everybody in the sangha so New students of course they're going to be coming in getting intro classes enlightenment Classes and go through all the teachings so it's something that definitely helps new people very important We have a big focus on helping new people because when you're teaching and helping new people Then you a lot of light comes through a lot of light comes through so when when you're part of this dojo where you where new people are coming in and just your participation in the psychic Organic network of the sangha is something that adds support and power to the new people, then more light flows through you. Current students, so everyone who's currently a student, at whatever level you're at, you've been here for, is it your first class, your second class, your second satsang ever, whatever, there's a structure that you're gonna fall into, a place in this pyramid that you're gonna be at the right spot. So advanced students, very special for advanced students. So advanced students are now at a level where you can be a very powerful aid in this pyramid. So, Bodons. Bodhans are able to teach introduction and beginning Buddhism, if you have the empowerment for that. So, Bodhans, a lot of them, I think, got this empowerment. And if not, I can give you guys this empowerment. It's the empowerment to be a teacher of the introduction and beginning stage. So that's the bottom of the pyramid. The foundation is important. Now advanced students, you can do way more. So advanced students, this is where you're able to do these lojong teachings, for example. So lojong teachings are intermediate teachings and they're powerful teachings. So we've had advanced students who've done beginning teaching intro teaching right very very very helpful very powerful. And now you're going to the next level where you're doing intermediate teachings, so you're able to do everything and the Lojong teachings, and there will be more teachings that you do, this is really, really powerful. So, just like in a dojo, as you're developing yourself, you help develop others, and then you become more powerful and strong because of this. Ram Rinpoche used to always say, advance yourself by advancing others, and this is something that happens in spiritual schools and in dojos. So let's say you're a brown belt and your sensei asks you to work with a yellow belt and says, teach them this. When you teach, you actually get stronger. So you're teaching them something basic, right? And you knew it, but by teaching them, you become stronger in what you're teaching. It is just a mystery of things, I don't know. It's the way that it works in the inner world. When you get advanced, you teach someone less advanced, and by you teaching them, they grow, but by you teaching them, you become a master of that. Before you taught them, you were good at it, but you become a master of it by teaching it. So advanced students, to be in the structure of the Buddha Dojo and to help, to support, you're becoming an intrinsic aspect of the Dojo. You become part of this pyramid. There's a pyramid, and you're becoming part of the pyramid. And Bodhans too. You're able to teach. You're able to translate the Enlightenment workbook. You're able to teach people in this country and in other countries the pathway to Enlightenment. It's very, very powerful. You're becoming part of the pyramid. Buddha Dojo, the Nalanda aspect, is that we're going to have more teachings from ST1s and ST2s. So I'm going to open it up more for ST1s and ST2s. And this will be where someone comes in and teaches something that they're working on at the moment, some new realization maybe tell stories of, you know, past stories of Rama. And it's really a powerful thing when you're, you know, one of the more advanced students in the school to hear the tales of power, to see the realizations of old students. Now, you know, and also to be in my structure, because, you know, I don't recommend a lot of the things that the old students did. They didn't follow the teachings at the end very well, not a lot of them. So there will be students here who made plenty of mistakes. They might be in the midst of a mistake. But if you're an advanced student, there's still powerful things that you can learn. So you might be in a dojo and an old student of the master walks in and was all like, well, here's how I fell on my face. And I, you know, boom, had this injury and I did this thing wrong. We can still learn from that. And it's powerful. And there's nothing bad about their process and what they're going through. It's just that in this structure, it's powerful for advanced students to learn from what these senior students experience. You know, having like Kali talk, she has such a powerful authenticity in talking about her experience as this yogi woman, powerful stuff. So, all of the ST1s and ST2s, they have some powerful experiences. Now, you can't just say, okay, they're all right, and I'm gonna do exactly what they said. No, no, this is why you have to be a more advanced student to be able to take their teachings, because it's, as the Hagakure says, the book of Samurai, it's bad when one becomes two. And that means that if you get confused by their teachings, then it splits your awareness. But if you are very strong in your practice, in the way of the dojo, if someone comes in and is like, I was trying to do a jumping spinning hook kick, it didn't work. It's like, you're not confused by another technique. You're not split, it doesn't split your attention. And if you see someone who's done something good, it adds to your awareness. It doesn't take away from it. It doesn't make you say, there's something that doesn't work. And if something doesn't work, and you say, oh, okay, I can learn a lesson from that, it adds to your attention, it adds to your power, it doesn't separate your power. So it doesn't confuse you either way. It actually, either way you have a greater awareness of power. So in our Nalanda, we have powerful support for new students, current students, advanced students, and dinosaurs. No, fossils. That's the ST1 and ST2. So this will be a very powerful and good and excellent vehicle for the growth of these teachings. So it started with, you know, Ramana Rinpoche becoming enlightened, teaching a bunch of students and then what we're doing is we are continuing that, teaching new advanced students, advanced students to become enlightened and creating such a structure, very strong mystery school structure. So in our minds, our structure is really a pyramid. It's creating a structure that we are all part of. We are all a brick in a pyramid. And because we're a brick in a pyramid, it's a powerful thing. You pull a brick out, there's a brick missing. You pull enough out, it falls, right? It's not a pyramid anymore. So we're all part of a powerful thing together. And as advanced students, we are the principles who create the structure. And then we benefit by being in the structure, but we also are able to help new students benefit. And because we're a structure that's built for the benefit and propagation of the Dharma, of Rama's lineage and Rama's teachings through this spiritual mystic structure, there's tremendous power in it. Tremendous. So it's a fun thing. Let's move on to the next slide. The Buddha Dojo. What happens in the Buddha Dojo stays in the Buddha Dojo. Unless you leave it. Just kidding. Okay, so in the Buddha Dojo, we begin with the introduction teachings, which lead to the Enlightenment Workbook teachings, which lead to the beginning Buddhism teachings. So this is a new thing I'm talking to you about. So I'm going to have, this is gonna be a free class that's available to anybody at any time. And in this class, there will be several video recordings, there'll be some recommended books, and then, you know, there'll be once a month a new teaching from me. And so I want to make a structure that anybody in the Sangha, anybody on the internet, can have three classes. Intro, e-workbook, beginning. And that will go on for eternity. So free is always a way. Then when you start to go into Buddhist mysticism, java yoga and bodhicitta, these are going to be where people online start paying. and it'll be kind of a nominal fee, but a fee where they're like engaging. And so the Buddhist mysticism classes, job yoga and bodhicitta classes, these are gonna be where there's gonna be more higher level teachings from the advanced students. So of course, advanced students can teach intro and advanced students can teach workbook for the work for the workbook we're going to have probably half a dozen teachers, break up the workbook. And then, you know, two chapters and then teach those chapters, over and over. For beginning Buddhism, it's just going to be recordings, then a monthly, it can come into the monthly satsang that I give for everyone. And then Buddhist mysticism, Java Yoga and Bodhicitta, this is where we're going to use as the first teaching of the month will be one of my satsangs from the Cowell Theater, or I guess when we get into bodhichitta, some satsangs from the Dharma Villa. And so we're just going to use those recordings. I was thinking of redoing those teachings, but I need to put my focus on teaching where we need to go from here. So the Buddhist mysticism teachings that I did in the Cal Theatre are very structured and they're very powerful. I was thinking of like redoing them but they stand on their own. So the first week of the month will be one of those recordings. The second week of the month, the second Saturday, is gonna be where an advanced teacher is going to teach about the previous week's teaching that I gave. So it'll be like, hey, so Sanbaro's teaching about this, and here are some of my things. There's gonna be movies that are recommended and books that are recommended. And so you can talk about the book, talk about the movies and how they relate to the teachings, your own personal insights. This is gonna be where you do a teaching and then also answer some questions. So this is gonna be a place where advanced students have a strong way of helping new students. And we're gonna carry that out through job yoga and bodhicitta. Now when we get to job yoga, we're going to go through my teachings at the Cal Theatre of Job Yoga, but at the same time, advanced students are going to start teaching about the Happy Yoga Project. So, we did this with the SD5s. We created, at a certain point, Happy Yoga Projects, where it was like we're you know, some kind of happy, positive project. Not something for money, just something happy and positive. So this is where the advanced students will be teaching about, here's what a yoga project is. It's something that, you know, job yoga is about what you do at your work, but a yoga project's where you take a definite thing and you make that your little project and you start working on it. And it could be baking cupcakes, it could be sewing sweaters, knitting, and anything that they're drawn to, anything that the student sees as what they want to do as yoga. It could be a personal project that they work on. You can get them to team up with people in the yoga project to do something together. And that will be the happy yoga project. So during the teachings of job yoga, you will also, advanced teachers, instruct them how to do a happy yoga project. Then we're gonna go into bodhicitta. And in bodhicitta, we're going to have your Lojong teachings available for people to learn from. And we're going to go through my Cowell Theater teachings of Bodhicitta, and also my Dharma Villa teachings. So we've got a lot of Bodhicitta teachings. So I was going to do an additional class called Tantra, but I'm not going to do that anymore. I mean, I could, I just don't think I have time for it because I have to do more classes. So we're just going to have as the structure for the students, Buddhist Mysticism, Job Yoga, Happy Yoga Project, and Bodhisita. That's the main subscription model. Now, we have another special class, which is the incubator, the yoga incubator. And this is something that Dharma's been structuring with Chi. And in order to get to the advanced teachings, no matter what these online students do, they're going to have to go from a happy yoga project to a real business. And we're going to give them a yoga incubator where they learn entrepreneurialism, learn business, go through all those books that EJ had taught so that they really could be a business and successful in business because it is by succeeding in a yoga that will create the powerful uplift for yogis to be able to get the advanced teachings. So that is a performance requirement that does not change. And then once they get the advanced teachings, then voila, we get more enlightened bricks. More enlightened bricks in our pyramid. And the enlightened bricks are the gold bricks, that's why it's going to be a golden pyramid. All right, let's go on to the next slide. All right, so there's going to be fees. The first fee is free. And that's, you know, they can do an intro class, e-workbook class, and the beginning class. They can do those three things forever, as long as they have good etiquette. And so those are always gonna be available. And then the subscription model is going to be a $10 a month subscription for Buddhist mysticism, job yoga, and bodhicitta. So this will be like a long-term thing. And this is where they will be teaching and going through all of these very, very, very core teachings. And that's where they have to pay something so that they have some, they show that they're really interested. And they don't have to pay a lot. They just have to pay something. So I think $10 a month is where they're pushing enough to say, I'm paying for this and I'm willing to sit through an hour of teaching every Saturday. And if they have that level of commitment, then they could be successful in the dojo. Then we have something called the fast path. The fast path is $100 a month, which is a lot more. And that is for someone who, at some point, takes the path a lot more seriously, and then they will be in the yoga incubator. So when someone says, I want to take the fast path, that's where they get into the yoga incubator. And that's where they're going to learn how to build a business, how to focus on a yoga that's going to be successful so that they can get to the advanced teachings. So people who get on the fast path, they might get in there quickly. They might say, I'm doing Buddhist mysticism and I just know that I love this school so much, I'm totally down with everything, and so I wanna do this thing called the fast path. Or they might be someone who's really into business and they want to do the fast path, they might be during the job yoga, learning about yoga, might learn about the fast path. Fast path will be something that we have on our website that we tell what they get and what's available and the benefits. So at some point, they might want to jump even from the beginning to the fast path. They'll still go through Buddhist mysticism, job yoga, and bodhicitta, but they'll also be in the incubator. And then they'll have teachings and mentoring to get their yoga. So that's where someone's gonna really become a yogi.

0:42:14
Additionally for Fast Path,

0:42:16
I'm gonna be doing a monthly satsang. And then all Bodhans and advanced students can be in that teaching. But that's where I'm gonna be kind of talking about, I'm gonna be doing very yoga project empowerments and teachings. All right, let me get to what I call the upper Dons, Bodons. Oh wait, no, Bodons don't become Nidons. I've got some little belt structure.

0:42:44
I'll show it to you guys later.

0:42:45
I didn't put it in here. But, yeah, so this is gonna be for Bodons and advanced students. So that's what we call the upper Dons.

0:42:56
And the upper Dons are really

0:42:57
the supporting members of the school. You guys pay a much higher tuition, and you guys are members of the school and you get additional teachings and benefits. Okay, let's go on to the next.

0:43:23
All right, so what do the free students get again?

0:43:24
Intro, e-workbook, beginning Buddhism, and the first 90 days of Buddhist mysticism is free. And then at that point, they get to decide if they want to start paying. Next. So the subscription students who pay $10 a month, Buddhist mysticism, job yoga, happy yoga project, and bodhicitta. This will be something where advanced students are supporting. So for all subscription students, we're going to do two of my satsangs per month. So it'll be a Cal Theatre satsang, and then the next week will be an advanced student teaching on that subject, and then the next week will be another Cal Theater Satsang. We'll be teaching Buddhist mysticism, job yoga, and bodhicitta all at the same time. Because if we take our current students, some of them didn't get any of the job yoga teachings. Some of them didn't get any of, and the ones that got that maybe didn't get the Buddhist mysticism teachings. So we're going to teach, starting in January, we're gonna start teaching all of the teachings at the same time. So that means that on the first Saturday, we will have available for them the video from the first Buddhist mysticism teaching on the same Saturday, the first job yoga teaching, the same Saturday, the first bodhicitta teaching. The next Saturday, there will be a Buddhist mysticism advanced teacher who gives a teaching. On that same day, there will be a job yoga advanced teacher who gives a teaching. On the same day, there will be an advanced teacher who does a bodhisitta teaching on that first bodhisitta teaching. So, this is going to be where we're giving them support, talking about the movies, the books, and then answering some questions, and this gets them to move forward. That's a subscription student. Next. their strong focus on yoga, work, business success. They're gonna get yoga mentoring. So this is where we'll maybe put them into groups, maybe just give them the right information so they can start their own businesses. So in these yogas, they can get together and make their own businesses. We're definitely not gonna be in a business with them. If one of the advanced students want to be in a business with them, this is all gonna be businesses that are formally structured, that are really not a part of the school, and we're gonna have the proper agreements in order so that people don't get confused. And I guess that'll be part of the incubator mentoring, is the structures. So I guess I'll be part of the incubator mentoring, is the structures. So the advanced teachers will be teaching in the incubator. This is where, just like when EJ gave us the business classes, he gave us these beautiful teachings, and then we read these books. So Dharma, Chi, will be able to create this beautiful structure and advanced teachers will be teaching about entrepreneurialism, business, yoga, and then support for doing a real business yoga project. If you're on the fast path, you're going to get some of the Dharma Dojo videos that support this as well. And then, as I said before, there's gonna be a special monthly satsang where I focus on teaching and empowering these things. There's also gonna be a power trip. So I'm gonna do an annual power trip for people on the fast path. And then Upper Dawns can be a part of that as well. And next slide. Oh, you're the upper dons.

0:47:43
So the Bodons are,

0:47:45
you guys are getting grandfathered in to the upper dons. And that's because you maybe, maybe you didn't even get the Buddhist mysticism teachings. You will have to go through those teachings. It's very important. So any satsangs that you've missed, you've got to go through that structure and learn these things. Basics are very, very, very important. You might have heard all of these things, but go back and learn any spot that you missed. Rama always said that there's no skipping steps, except for you're getting grandfathered in a step. Which means that to be a Bowdoin, you have shown that you have strong tonal in your life to be able to have a good career, to be able to pay the tuition. And to pay the tuitions is a big act of selflessness because the tuition is, you know, high price and you're like, okay, I would really offer this because I am into this. So there's enough toenail and enough selflessness for you to be a boat on. And because you have a good spirit, you have the toenail and such a selfless spirit, then I've been inviting you more and more to these more advanced teachings, and you've become what we would call kind of advanced intermediates, which is now what I call the bow dawn, and the boat on will have special teachings, it's going to, there's going to be a monthly boat on Satsang. slots on. And then, of course, the advanced students can come to this. And then I'm going to do an annual Bowdoin power trip. And that is going to be Bowdoins only, so not even the advanced students. Isn't that cool? Maybe, maybe a couple, you know, some people to add in things or, you know,

0:50:04
things like that.

0:50:05
But this is gonna be a boat on only power chip. So that'll be kind of fun. For advanced students who fall into, you know, need on or above kind of thing. I'm still working on the belt rankings a little bit. But the advanced students are going to have a black belt rating.

0:50:33
For the belt rankings going forward,

0:50:35
we're going to get rid of talking about beginning students, intermediate students, and advanced students. We're just going to go by belts. So upper dons are bodons and knee dons. And that means that you've gotten to a certain place of power in your career, selflessness in your work, and if you're like a knee don, then you're in the advanced program. If you go from the bodon practice, you succeed in your yoga and you move into the advanced, what we call the advanced teachings, you're gonna go into the Nidon teachings is what we're gonna call it. Or this, yeah, something like that. But we're not gonna talk about, you're a beginning student, you're an intermediate student, you're an advanced student. We're gonna go into belts. Like a dojo, like in a dojo. We're gonna go into bricks, like in a pyramid. All right, and then there's gonna be an advanced power trip. I'm also gonna do individual or group meetings. So with advanced students, I might be doing meditations, I might be doing in-person meetings, depends if I'm in Europe. So I'm still working on the proper support. But for advanced students, since I'm sticking around, I wanna give you guys the proper support. I just thought like so many of Rama's students after they got the advanced teachings, just make so many mistakes. And I'm trying to tell you not to make those mistakes and to give you the support so that you can stay on target and go for it and become enlightened. So I will be giving in-person teachings, Zoom teachings. So we'll be working on things. And I'll probably give more of the Siddha teachings. So I already gave you guys the empowerments, the advanced empowerments, which includes a lot of the Siddhas, but I haven't really taught you about them. And I said, if you want to learn it, just work on it. You have the empowerment, do a lot of work and you will access that empowerment and magic comes out, but I can also give teachings on it. Yeah, so also for, yeah, so there's a lot of options and opportunities. Let's go to the next slide, please. Upper Dawns Teach, and this is something I've been talking about. So you'll be assisting teachers in all primary classes from introduction through Bodhisitta. However, you'll be the primary teacher. Advanced students can teach classes such as martial arts. So we can offer any students who are in the, any subscription students, we can say, you can join our martial arts classes. So Raja might be teaching a martial arts class. Maybe it's karate, right? I guess, you know, the COVID days, I guess on, yeah, teaching somebody jiu-jitsu might not be so easy. You're all here, grab my wrist. Pretend someone grabs your wrist. Yeah, so karate is easier, you know, punching and kicking gives you a good workout. So when we teach martial arts, we should teach punching, kicking, technique, but we should also teach in every class a little bit of how martial arts is part of our spiritual

0:54:39
practice.

0:54:41
So this is something that advanced teachers can teach. Ajna could teach Iaido. He's like, make sure you're in a room where when you swing your sword, you won't break any of it. But I want as part of any martial arts class that any advanced teacher wants to teach, I want you to make sure that you're teaching the martial art and all the benefits of that, but also make sure that you're teaching why we do this martial art. You might be teaching about things about control, things about developing personal power. Just add some dharma into every physical teaching. And so we also might be teaching scuba. So in teaching scuba, we can teach all sorts of wonderful things. Here's how to hold your breath underwater. Just kidding. That was a joke. A joke and bad taste.

0:55:38
First rule of scuba,

0:55:40
never hold your breath underwater. But we can teach scuba diving.

0:55:44
And as we teach scuba diving,

0:55:46
we can teach mystic scuba. So we have the first intention and we can also teach the mystic scuba practices just in a form that we do above water, which is also known as qigong.

0:56:09
All right, and we can do other,

0:56:11
oh, also there's of course the yoga incubator. So that we taught by advanced teachers. And then we can do other classes like we might teach a music class. So for example, she has been doing an amazing job at taking many different musicians and composers and working with them on how to make dharma music. And so she could, or Mudra could, teach a class on here's how to do dharma music. And it doesn't have to be as hands-on. I mean, she's doing a lot of work organizing people into making meditation music, but with a whole bunch of new students, it could just be instruction, instruction, instruction, and let people learn and grow on their own. So there's all sorts of things that we can do. We could teach a class on death and dying, if Savitri wanted to, or if Kamala wanted to. Tara did an awesome teaching on death today. We could teach a class on writing. So Turiya, some of you have been in Turiya's writing class. I have a student who just completed a book, published a book just a couple days ago, I think. And in the book, she's teaching, or she uses some references, me and some of the teachings of the school. So that's a huge success. So we can teach about writing and other things. So if you're an advanced student, you say, I really wanna teach a class on this. One of the primary things in our school or something super powerful, then we could say, okay, sounds good. So we can have elective classes, so for all students who are going to be subscription students, once they become a subscription student, they can go through the primary teachings, but they can also get martial arts, scuba, music, writing, the yoga incubators for Fast Path. But they can get these additional classes for free if they have interest in it, if there's advanced students who want to teach it. So that's something super cool. And then, separate from this, of course, there's also going to be the ST1 and ST2 teachings, which is just for the upper dots. So that's it for this presentation. We can go back to me. So this is just some more information about what we're developing. And I think it's, I think it's definitely in the second intention, amazing, powerful thing. I just wanna talk to you about the symbol that we're developing here. Now for a long time, we've had a kind of a spiritual symbol of our school, which was a lotus with a diamond in the lotus. And from the lotus, they're shooting out rainbow light. And so some of you might have seen this picture. It was something that a lot of us had on our altar for a long time. And this was to say that the jewel is in the lotus, like the enlightenment is within you. And that what comes from the lotus is the rainbow light. So from enlightenment comes the rainbow light. And this was an expression of teaching and yoga. So by teaching and by doing yoga, you're bringing that enlightenment out into what we call skillful means. For App Buddy, software. For teaching, introduction teaching. So for a long time, the core of our school was recognition of enlightenment is within you and that there's something to do. We have to bring that light out and we bring it out in skillful means. A lot of yoga, a lot of teaching. And what I see this as, I see that as the seed for this new structure, which is a golden pyramid. So I see this seed of the jewel and the lotus and the rainbow light is the center and the foundation of this golden pyramid. And the golden pyramid is a new structure in the second attention and a website. You know, the first attention. But all of this that we're putting together is a pyramid. It's a very classic structure of an Egyptian mystery school. Very similar to the structures of Nalanda. And we call it, you know, we call it the Buddha Dojo, but it is the jewel in the lotus that is the foundation and the seed for a golden pyramid, a new construction, the next level from that yoga teaching to something big and powerful. So I asked Ajna if he could take the golden pyramid that I showed you guys earlier and the jewel in the lotus as the seed and create the image that we should put on our altar. So maybe he's working on it.

1:02:10
Yay.

1:02:11
All right, so I want to thank you all very much. You guys did a very good job. And when we're working towards our personal development in the dojo, in the golden pyramid, you're always able to follow a very powerful teaching. Advance yourself by advancing others. Be a part of the pyramid, be a brick in this tower, pyramid of enlightenment, and then And then that's a good place to be. If you're a brick, you go outside of the pyramid,

1:02:56
you're just a brick.

1:02:57
The brick in a pyramid, part of a pyramid. The brick in a pyramid, part of a pyramid. All right, kamsahamnida, be well.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
