0:00:00
So we're going to continue with our study of this ancient Tibetan Buddhist text, the Vardha-vidal, which as you learned last week, means liberation through hearing. So it's interesting that we're actually listening to the audio book together because for many, many centuries, this book was read aloud or recited as a way to support a loved one in a transition from one life to the next. I'd like to remind you that since this book is based on ancient Tibetan Buddhist wisdom, a lot of the ways of looking at life in it may be unfamiliar or different from what you're used to. And that's okay, you don't have to swap your worldview for this worldview, just be open-minded. Try to be open to a new perspective and learn about what this worldview is like. For example, reincarnation is a very significant part of it. Life is seen as a cycle. It's not something that starts at birth and ends at death and that's it. It's seen as something that repeats from life to death to bardos to more life over and over and over again. And a spirit continues. It keeps coming back to learn more or to have more experiences. So we're doing the fourth bardo today, the bardo of the coming. And like the other bardos, it's a time that is very insubstantial. It's very dreamlike. Things change quickly. It's very unstable and dramatic. So it's pretty intense, but it's also a really good time for reflection and spiritual growth. The mind is actually more fluid and more open to learning because of the state that it's

0:02:12
in.

0:02:13
So last week we completed the third bardo which was that big intense section with all of the peaceful and wrathful deities. And now we're starting the Siddha Bhardo. So the Siddha Bhardo covers the period of time from conception to birth. And just like in the earlier parts, there's many opportunities for awakening, and it can be confusing and intense. So having support, like Bodhicitta from your loved ones, or the kind of support that Ajahn was talking about from a bardo yogi, is really helpful. The Siddha bardo itself is sort of like a series of dreams. There's a predictable path that a being goes through in the Siddha bardo. It contains a variety of different experiences. Pleasurable experiences, liberating experiences, strange, confusing, difficult experiences, all sorts of things. There are trials, difficulties to overcome, and there's opportunities. So the art of the doll is basically giving instructions for how to make the most out of this experience, like how to use it as an opportunity, and how to learn from the time in the Siddha Partha and also how to traverse it in such a way that you get a good rebirth. So from a Buddhist perspective, a human birth is a very good birth, which might seem odd given that it's difficult being a human, but if you're someone who wants liberation, enlightenment, awakening, being human is actually fabulous. We have a reasonable length lifespan, not too long, not too short. We have a reasonable balance between the amount of suffering we experience and the amount of pleasurable experiences we experience. And we have enough mental acuity to be able to practice. So one of the things talked about in the Cinta Pardo is the various other kinds of births that are possible, and they're contrasted to being a human and the emphasis is on you want to be a human if you want to be enlightened. It's a good kind of being to be if that's what you want. So in this epic journey through the Siddha Bhardo we're going to visit places like the summit, we're going to see visions of the divine in various scenarios and experience different energies and hear about the different possible pathways towards birth. And one thing that I think is really interesting in learning about the barda fiddle or as someone a practitioner of Buddhism or meditation and someone who wants awakening is that all of these lessons that we're learning about in the Vardas at all, they're relevant to us now while we're alive. So it's not just something to learn about in order to be able to traverse the Vardas later, but all of these energies, all of these challenges, they happen while we're as well, and so learning about them is helpful here.

0:06:04
And then also a Bardo,

0:06:06
it basically needs transitional state

0:06:08
or intermediate state.

0:06:10
So it's not just the intermediate state between death and rebirth. It can be used to talk about any intermediate state, any state between things. For example, right now we could say we're in the bardo of coronavirus and the societal upheaval that we're experiencing here in the U.S. The old world has ended and the new world hasn't begun yet. And we're in this weird state that's disorienting. It can be distressing, confusing. But it's so different from how things were before that it shakes us out of our routines. It gets us to not be stuck in our habitual states of awareness. So in that way it's an opportunity for shifting our awareness, for awakening. It gets us out of our mundane, stuck awareness.

0:07:19
So it's an opportunity in that way.

0:07:22
All right.

0:07:23
So the section of the book we're going to listen to now is shorter than what we listened to last week, and I'd say less intense. Let's still go ahead and sit up nice and straight, treat it like a meditation.

0:07:36
still and alert and open and enjoy. and respectful homage to the deities gurus, yidams and dakinis

0:07:56
may they cause liberation in the Bardo. In the great liberation through hearing, the Bardo of Dharmata has been taught above. Now comes the remainder of the Bardo of Becoming. Although the Bardo of Dharmata has been shown many times before this, apart from those who were adept or who were very wicked. So from about the tenth day onwards they should be reminded again in these words. O child of noble family, listen well and understand. Hell beings, gods and the Bardo body are born spontaneously. When the peaceful and wrathful deities appeared in the Bardo of Dharmata, you did not recognize them, so you fainted with fear after five and a half days. But when you recovered, your consciousness grew clear, and a body like your former one rose up. It is said in the Tantra, With the former and future material body of the bardo of becoming, complete with all the senses, wandering without obstruction, possessing the power of miracles resulting from karma, seen by the pure eyes of gods with the same nature. Here, former means that you have a body like your former one of flesh and blood because of your memories of it, but it is also radiant and has some marks like a body of the Golden Age. This is the experience of a mental body, so it is called the mental body of the Bardo experience. At this time, if you are going to be born as a god, you will experience the realm of the gods, and whatever you are going to be born as, jealous god, human, animal, hungry ghost, or hell being, you will have that experience. Therefore, former means thinking, for up to four and a half days, that you have a material body of memories of your former one, and future means that after that you will have experiences of wherever you are going to be born later. So they say former and future. Whatever projections arise at this time, do not follow them or be attracted to them or yearn for them. If you are attracted to them or yearn for them, you will wander in the six realms and suffer misery. Although the projections of the bardo of Dharmata appeared until yesterday, you did not recognize them, so you had to wander here. Now if you are able to, meditate undistractedly. Rest in the pure, naked mind, luminosity emptiness, which your guru has shown you, relaxed in a state of non-grasping and non-action. You will attain liberation and not enter a womb. If you cannot recognize, visualize your Yidam, or your guru, above your head and feel intense devotion very strongly. This is very important. Again and again do not be distracted." So one should say. If he recognizes this, he will be liberated and not wander in the six realms. But under the influence of bad karma, it is difficult to recognize. So one should say these words. O child of noble family, listen with undistracted mind. Complete with all the senses means that even if you were blind, deaf, lame, and so on, when you were alive, now in the bardo state your eyes see forms, your ears hear sounds, and all your senses are clear and faultless. So it is said, complete with all the senses. This is a sign that you have died and are wandering in the bardo state, so recognize, remember the instruction. O child of noble family, without obstruction means that as you are a mental body and your mind is separated from its support, you have no material body. So now you can pass back and forth even through Mount Meru, the king of mountains, or anywhere except your mother's womb and the Vajrasita. This is a sign that you are wandering in the bardo of becoming, so remember your guru's teaching and supplicate the Lord of great compassion. O child of noble family, possessing the power of miracles resulting from karma means that you now have miraculous powers resulting from the force of karma in accordance with your actions, not those which come from meditation or virtues. You can circle the four continents and Mount Meru in an instant and arrive anywhere you want instantaneously as soon as you think of it. Or in the time it takes a man to stretch out and draw back his hand. But these various powers are unsuitable. Do not think about them. Now you have the ability to display them without hindrance. You can perform everything you think of and there is no action you cannot do. So recognize and supplicate your guru. O child of noble family, seeing by the pure eyes of gods with the same nature means that those who are going to be born with the same nature will see one another in the bardo state. So those who are going to be born as gods see each other. In the same way, whichever of the six realms they are going to be born in, those of the same nature will see each other. Do not yearn for them, but meditate on the Lord of great compassion. Seen by the pure eyes of gods also means seen by the pure divine eye of meditation in real samadhi, and not only that which comes from the merit of the gods. But they do not always see. If they concentrate on seeing, they will see, but if not, or if their meditation is disturbed, they do not see. O child of noble family, with a body like this you will see your home and family as though you were meeting them in a dream, but although you speak to them, you will get no reply, and you will see your relatives and family weeping, so you will think, I am dead, what shall I do? And you will feel intense pain, like the pain of a fish rolling in hot sand. But now suffering is no use. If you have a guru, supplicate him, or supplicate the Yidam, the Lord of great compassion. Even though you are attached to your relatives, it is of no use, so do not be attached. Supplicate the Lord of great compassion, and there will be no suffering or fear. O child of noble family, blown by the moving winds of karma, your mind, without support, helplessly rides the horse of wind like a feather, swaying and swinging. You will say to the mourners, I am here, do not weep. But they will not perceive you, so you will think, I have died, and now you will feel great pain. Do not suffer like that. All the time there will be a gray haze like the gray light of an autumn dawn, neither day nor night. This kind of bardo state will last for one, two, three, four, five, six or seven weeks, up to forty-nine days. It is said that the suffering in the bardo of becoming generally lasts for twenty-one days, but this is not quite certain because of the influence of karma. O child of noble family, at this time the great tornado of karma, terrifying, unbearable, whirling fiercely, will drive you from behind. Do not be afraid of it. It is your own confused projection. Dense darkness, terrifying and unbearable, will go before you. With terrible cries of strike and kill, do not be afraid of them. In the case of others who have done great evil, many flesh-eating demons will appear as a result of their karma, bearing various weapons, yelling war cries, shouting, kill, strike, and so on. You will feel that you are being chased by various terrifying wild animals and pursued by a great army in snow, rain, storms, and darkness. There will be sounds of mountains crumbling, of lakes flooding, of fire spreading, and of fierce winds springing

0:16:29
up.

0:16:30
In fear you will escape wherever you can, but you will be cut off by three precipices in front of you, white, red, and black, deep and dreadful, and you will be on the point of falling down them. O child of noble family, they are not really precipices, they are aggression, passion and ignorance. Recognize this now to be the bardo of becoming, and call the name of the Lord of great compassion. O Lord of great compassion, my guru, the three jewels, do not let me fall into hell. Supplicate fervently like this. Do not forget." In the case of others who have gathered merit and were virtuous and practiced dharma sincerely, all kinds of perfect enjoyment will invite them, and they will experience all kinds of perfect bliss and happiness. In the case of those who are indifferent and ignorant, who did neither good nor evil, they will not experience pleasure or pain, but only ignorance and indifference will appear. Whatever arises like this, O child of noble family, whatever pleasures and objects of desire, do not be attracted to them or yearn for them. Offer them to the guru and the three jewels. Give up attachment and longing in your heart, and if the experience of indifference arises without either pleasure or pain, rest your mind in the great symbol state of undistracted non-meditation. This is very important. O child of noble family, at this time bridges, shrines and monasteries, huts, stupas and so on will shelter you for a moment, but you will not stay there for long. Since your mind is separated from your body, you cannot settle down. You feel angry and cold, and consciousness becomes airy, speeding, swaying and impermanent. Then you will think, Alas! I am dead! What shall I do now? And thinking this, your heart will suddenly grow empty and cold and you will feel intense and boundless pain. Since you must move on without settling in any one place, do not occupy yourself with all kinds of thoughts, but rest your mind in its basic state. The time comes when you have no food except that which has been dedicated for you to eat, and there is no certainty of friends. These are signs of the mental body wandering in the bardo of becoming. At this moment, pleasure and pain are determined by your karma. You will see your homeland, friends and relatives and your own corpse and you will think now I am dead so what should I do? The mental body will be in extreme pain so you will think now why not find a body and you will experience going everywhere to look for a body. Even if you enter your own corpse up to nine times, winter will have frozen it or summer made it rot, or else your relatives will have burned it or buried it in a grave or given it to the birds and wild animals. For a long time has passed in the bardo of dharmata, so you will find nowhere to enter. You will be in great despair and have the feeling of being squeezed in between all the rocks and stones. Suffering like this is the bardo of becoming. Even if you look for a body there is nothing but suffering. So cut off your yearning for a body and rest in the state of non-action, undistracted. By being shown in this way, liberation from the bardo is attained. But if in spite of being shown like this it is impossible to recognize because of the power of bad karma, one should call the dead person by name and say these words. O child of noble family, listen. It is your own karma that you are suffering like this, so you cannot blame anyone else. It is your own karma, so now supplicate the three jewels fervently. They will protect you. If you do not supplicate like this and do not know the great symbol meditation, and you do not meditate on your yidam, then the good conscience within you will collect all your good actions and count out white pebbles, and the bad conscience within you will collect all your evil actions and count out black pebbles. At this time you will be very frightened and terrified, and you will tremble and lie, saying, I have not sinned. Then the Lord of death will say, I will look in the mirror of karma, and when He looks in the mirror, all your sins and virtues will suddenly appear in it clearly and distinctly. So although you have lied, it is of no use. Then the Lord of Death will drag you by a rope tied around your neck and cut off your head, tear out your heart, pull out your entrails, lick your brains, drink your blood, eat your flesh, and gnaw your bones. But you cannot die, so even though your body is cut into pieces, you will recover. Being cut again and again causes extreme pain, so do not be afraid when the white pebbles are being counted. Do not lie, and do not fear the Lord of Death. Since you are a mental body, you cannot die even if you are killed and cut up. The Lords of Death are the natural form of emptiness, your own confused projections, and you are emptiness, a mental body of unconscious tendencies. Emptiness cannot harm emptiness. The uncharacterized cannot harm the uncharacterized. External lords of death, gods, evil spirits, the bull-headed demon and so on have no reality apart from your own confused projections, so recognize this. At this moment recognize everything as the Bardo. Meditate on the Samadhi of the great symbol. If you do not know how to meditate, look closely at the nature of what makes you afraid and you will see emptiness which has no nature whatever. This is called the dharmakaya. But this emptiness is not negation. Its nature is frightening. Mind with great awareness and clarity. This is the mind of sambhogakaya. The emptiness and the luminosity are not two separate things, but the nature of emptiness is luminosity, and the nature of luminosity is emptiness. Now the indivisible emptiness-luminosity, the naked mind, is stripped bare and dwells in its uncreated state. This is the svabhavikakaya. Its own natural energy arises everywhere without obstruction. This is the compassionate nirmanakaya, O child of noble family, see in this way without distraction. As soon as you recognize, you will attain complete enlightenment in the four kayas. Do not be distracted. This is the dividing line where Buddhas and sentient beings are separated. It is said of this moment, in an instant they are separated, in an instant, complete enlightenment. Complete Enlightenment. Until yesterday you were distracted, so although so much of the bardo state has appeared, you have not recognized, and you have so much fear. If you are distracted now, the rope of compassion will be cut off and you will go to a place where there is no liberation. So be careful. By being shown like this, even though he did not recognize before, he will recognize here and attain liberation. If he is a layman who does not know how to meditate like this, one should say these words. O child of noble family, if you do not know how to meditate like this, remember the Buddha, the Dharma and the Sangha and the Lord of great compassion and supplicate them. Meditate on all the terrifying projections as the Lord of great compassion or as your yidam. Remember your guru and the secret transmission name you had in the human world, and tell it to the Dharma King, the Lord of Death. Even if you fall down the precipice, you will not be hurt, so give up fear and terror." By being shown in these words, even though he was not liberated before, he will be liberated

0:24:21
here.

0:24:22
But because of the possibility that he may not recognize and so not be liberated, it is very important to make another effort. So one should call the dead person by name again and say these words. These present experiences will throw you into states of joy and sadness alternately at each moment like a catapult. So now do not create any feeling of passion and aggression. If you are going to be born in a higher realm, at the time when experiences of the higher realms occur, your relatives in the place you have left are sacrificing many animals dedicated for the sake of the dead, so impure thoughts will arise in you and you will feel violent anger, which will cause you to be born as a hell being. So, whatever is done in the place you have left behind, or if you feel attached to them through knowing that someone else is owning and enjoying your things, you will get angry with the people you have left behind. And that will certainly cause you to be born as a hell being or a hungry ghost, even if you are going to reach a higher state. In any case, even if you are attached to the things you have left behind, you cannot get them. It is no use to you. So give up attachment and yearning for your possessions, abandon them, make a firm decision. Whoever is enjoying your things, do not be possessive but let them go. With one-pointed concentration, think that you are offering them to your guru and the three jewels and remain in a state of desirelessness. When the kankani ritual for the dead is recited for you and the purification from the lower realms, and so on, are performed for your sake. With a subtle supernatural perception resulting from your karma, you will see them being done impurely, sleepily, inattentively, and so on. With careless behavior without observance of the samaya vows, and you will be aware of lack of faith and feelings of disbelief, sinful actions through fear and impurities in the rituals, and so you will think, Alas, they are deceiving me, surely they are deceiving me. Thinking this, you will have great sorrow and despair, and on top of not feeling pure devotion, you will disbelieve and lose faith, and that will certainly cause you to go to the lower realms. It is no use but very harmful. So however impurely the rituals are performed by the spiritual friends you have left behind, think with pure faith and devotion, well, my projections must be impure. How can there be impurity in Buddha's words? These are caused by my own impure projections, like seeing the faults of my own face reflected in a mirror. As for these people, their body is the Sangha, their speech is the holy dharma, and their mind is the nature of the Buddha. Therefore I take refuge in them." them. Then whatever is done in the place you have left will help you, so it is very important to have pure thoughts in this way. Do not forget. If you are going to be born in one of the three lower realms, at the time when experiences of them occur, your relatives in the place you have left are performing virtuous rituals free from sin, and gurus and teachers are practicing holy dharma with absolute purity of body, speech and mind, so you will feel great joy on seeing them, and that will immediately cause you to be born in a higher realm, even if you are going to fall down into the three lower realms, so it is very helpful. Therefore it is very important not to have impure thoughts, but to feel pure devotion without prejudice, so be careful. O child of noble family, to sum up, now your mind in the bardo state has no support, so it is light and mobile, and whatever thought arises in it, good or bad, it is very powerful. So do not think of any evil actions, but remember the practice of virtue. If you have no practice, feel devotion and pure thoughts. Supplicate your Yidam and the Lord of great compassion and say this inspiration inspiration prayer with intense concentration. When parted from beloved friends, wandering alone, my own projections' empty forms appear. May the Buddhas send out the power of their compassion so that the Bardo's terrors do not come. When I suffer through the power of evil karma, may my idam clear away all suffering. When the sound of the dharmata roars like a thousand thunders, may it all become the sound of the six syllables. When I follow my karma without a refuge, may the Lord of great compassion be my refuge. When I suffer the karma of unconscious tendencies, may the samadhi of bliss and luminosity arise. Say this prayer fervently. It will certainly lead you on the path. Be absolutely convinced that this is not false. This is very important. When this is said, he will remember and recognize and so attain liberation. But even though one does this many times, recognition is difficult because of the influence of much evil karma. So it is very helpful to repeat it again many times. Calling the dead person again by name, one should say these words, O child of noble family, if you have not understood what has gone before, from now on the body you had in your past life will grow fainter, and your future body will become clearer. So you will feel sad and think, I am suffering like this, so now I shall look for whatever kind of body appears. And you will move about, backwards and forwards, towards anything that appears. The six lights of the six realms of existence will shine, and the one in which you are going to be born because of your karma will shine most brightly. O child of noble family, listen! If you ask what the six lights are, the soft white light of the gods will shine, and similarly, the red light of the jealous gods, the blue light of human beings, the green light of the animals, the yellow light of the hungry ghosts, and the smoke-colored light of the hell beings. These are the six lights. At that moment your body will also take on the color of the place where you're going to be born. O child of noble family, at this time the essential point of the instruction is very important. Whatever light shines, meditate on that as the Lord of great compassion. Meditate on the thought that when the light appears it is the Lord of great compassion. This is the most profound essential point. It is extremely important and prevents birth. Meditate for a long time on whichever deity is your Yidam, as a vision without any real nature of its own, like an illusion. This is called the pure illusory body. Then let the yidam disappear from the edges inwards and rest for a while in the inconceivable state of emptiness-luminosity, which consists in nothing-whatever. Meditate again on the yidam, then again on the luminosity. Meditate like this alternately, and after that let your mind, too, disappear from the edges inwards. Wherever there is space there is mind, and wherever there is mind there is the Dharmakaya. Rest in the state of simplicity and selflessness of the Dharmakaya. In this state birth is prevented and he will become a Buddha. But those whose practice was poor and who were not adept in meditation will not understand, and still confused, will wander to the entrance of a womb. So the instructions for closing the womb entrance are very important. One should call the dead person by name and say these words, O child of noble family, if you have not recognized what has gone before, now you will feel that you are moving upwards or across or downwards by the force of karma. So at this moment meditate on the Lord of great compassion. Remember." Then you will have the experience, like that which was described before, of whirlwinds, snowstorms and hailstorms, darkness closing around and many men chasing you, and you will escape from them. Those without merit will feel that they are escaping to a place of suffering, but those with merit will feel that they are arriving in a place of joy. At this time, O child of noble family, all the signs of the country and place where you are going to be born will appear, so now listen without distraction, for there are many very profound essential points of instruction. Although you have not understood these secrets of recognition before, even one whose practice was very poor will get the point here, so listen. At this time it is very important to take great care with the method of closing the entrance of the womb. There are two methods, stopping the person who is entering and closing the womb entrance which is being entered. This is the instruction for stopping the person who is entering. O child of noble family, clearly visualize whichever deity is your Yidam as a vision with no real real nature of its own, like an illusion or the moon in water. If you have no specific idam, it is the Lord of great compassion Himself. Visualize Him vividly. Then let the idam disappear from the edges inwards and meditate on the luminosity emptiness without any object of thought. This is a profound secret. It is said that by means of it the womb is not entered, so meditate in this way. But if this does not stop you and you are just about to enter a womb, there are profound instructions for closing the womb entrance, which is about to be entered, so listen. Repeat after me these words from the main verses of the Bardo. Now when the Bardo of becoming dawns upon me, I will concentrate my mind one-pointedly and strive to prolong the results of good karma, close the womb entrance and think of resistance. This is the time when perseverance and pure thought are needed. Abandon jealousy and meditate on the guru with his consort." Say these words clearly aloud and arouse your memory. It is very important to meditate on their meaning and to put it into practice. This is the meaning. Now, when the bardo of becoming dawns upon me, means that now you are wandering in the bardo of becoming. As signs of this, if you look into the water you will not see your reflection, and your body has no shadow. Now there is no material body of flesh and blood, but these are signs of the mental body wandering in the bardo of becoming. So now you must concentrate your mind one-pointedly without distraction. Just now that one-pointed concentration is the most important thing. It is like controlling a horse with a bridle. Whatever you concentrate on will come about. So do not think of evil actions, but remember the Dharma, the teachings, the transmissions, and the authorizations for texts such as this Liberation Through Hearing, which you received in the human world, and strive to prolong the results of good karma. It is very important. Do not forget. Do not be distracted. Now is the time which is the dividing line between going up and going down. Now is the time when by slipping into laziness, even for a moment, you will suffer forever. Now is the time when by concentrating one-pointedly, you will be happy forever. Concentrate your mind one-pointedly. Strive to prolong the results of good karma. Now the time has come to close the womb entrance. It is said, close the womb entrance and think of resistance. This is the time when perseverance and pure thought are needed. Now that time has come. First, the womb entrance should be closed, and there are five methods of closing it, so understand them well. O child of noble family, at this time projections of men and women making love will appear. When you see them, do not enter in between them, but remember and meditate on the man and woman as the guru and his consort. Mentally prostrate yourself and make offerings with deep devotion and ask for teachings. As soon as you concentrate intensely on this thought, the womb entrance will certainly be closed. But if this does not close it and you are just about to enter a womb, meditate on the guru and his consort as your own Yidam, or the Lord of great compassion with his consort and mentally make an offering to them. With intense devotion, ask them to bestow spiritual attainments. This will close the womb entrance. But if this does not close it and you are just about to enter a womb, here is the third instruction on turning away passion and aggression. There are four kinds of birth. birth from an egg, birth from a womb, spontaneous birth, and birth from moisture. Of these, birth from an egg and birth from a womb are similar. As above, there will be projections of males and females in sexual union. And if you enter a womb at this moment through the power of passion and aggression, you will be born as a horse, bird, dog, human being, and so on, whatever it may be. If you are going to be born as a male, you will experience yourself as male and feel violent aggression towards the father and jealousy and desire for the mother. If you're going to be born as a female, you will experience yourself as female and feel intense envy and jealousy of the mother and intense desire and passion for the father. This will cause you to enter the path leading to the womb and you will experience self-existing bliss in the midst of the meeting of the sperm and ovum. From that blissful state you will lose consciousness and the embryo will grow round and oblong and so on until the body matures and comes out from the mother's womb. You will open your eyes and you have turned into a puppy. From first being a man you have now become a dog, so you will suffer in a dog kennel, or similarly in a pigsty, or in ant hill, or a wormhole, or else you may be born as a young bull, or a goat, or lamb, and so on. There is no returning here. You will endure all kinds of suffering from a state of great stupidity and ignorance. Circling like this around the six realms of existence of hell beings, hungry ghosts, and so on, you will be tormented by boundless suffering. There is nothing more powerful or terrifying than this. Alas, alas! Those who do not have a guru's sacred teachings will fall down the great precipice of samsara in this manner and endure endless, unbearable suffering. So, therefore, listen to my words and understand this instruction of mine." Now the instruction for closing the womb entrance by turning away passion and aggression is given. Listen and understand. It is said, Close the womb entrance and think of resistance. This is the time when perseverance and pure thought are needed. Abandon jealousy and meditate on the guru with his consort. As above, you will have feelings of jealousy. If you are going to be born as a male, you will love the mother and hate the father. And if you are going to be born as a female, you will love the father and hate the mother. So at this time, there is a profound instruction. O child of noble family, when passion and aggression arise like this, meditate in this way. Alas, I am a being with such evil karma that I have been wandering like this in samsara until now, through clinging to passion and aggression. If I go on feeling passion and aggression like this, I shall wander in samsara endlessly and sink into the depths of the ocean of suffering for a long time. So now I will feel no passion or aggression at all. Alas! Now I will never again feel passion and aggression. By concentrating your mind intensely and one-pointedly on this thought, that itself will close the womb entrance, so the tantras say. Oh child of noble family, do not be distracted. Concentrate your mind one-pointedly. But if even after doing this the womb entrance is not closed and you are about to enter a womb, then it should be closed by the instruction of the unreal and illusory nature of everything. Meditate in this way. Alas! The father and mother, the great storm, the whirlwind, the thunder, the terrifying projections and all these apparent phenomena are illusory in their real nature. However they appear, they are not real. All substances are false and untrue. They are like a mirage. They are not permanent. They are not changeless. What is the use of desire? What is the use of fear? It is regarding the non-existent as existent. All these are projections of my mind, and since the mind itself is illusory and non-existent from the beginning, from where externally do they arise like this? I did not understand in this way before, and so I believed the non-existent to exist, the untrue to be true, the illusion to be real. Therefore I have wandered in samsara for so long. And if I do not realize that they are illusions, I shall still wander in samsara for a long time and certainly fall into the muddy swamp of suffering. Now they are all like dreams, like illusions, like echoes, like cities of the Gandharvas, like mirages, like images, like optical illusions, like the moon in water. They are not real, even for a moment. Certainly they are not true, but false. By concentrating one-pointedly on this conviction, belief in their reality is destroyed and when one is inwardly convinced in such a way, belief in a self is counteracted. If you understand unreality like this from the bottom of your heart, the womb entrance will certainly be closed. But if even after doing this the belief in reality is not destroyed and the womb entrance is not closed and you're about to enter a womb, there is a profound instruction. Oh child of noble family, if even after doing this the womb entrance is not closed, now it should be closed by the fifth method, meditation on the luminosity, which should be done in this way. All substances are my own mind, and this mind is emptiness, unarisen and unobstructed. Thinking this, keep your mind natural and undiluted, self-contained in its own nature like water poured into water, just as it is, loose, open and relaxed. By letting it rest naturally and loosely, you can be sure that the womb entrance to all four kinds of birth will certainly be closed. Many true and profound instructions for closing the womb entrance have been given above. It is impossible for anyone of high, average or low capacities, whichever he may be, not to be liberated by them. Why is this? Firstly, because consciousness in the bardo state possesses supernatural perception of worldly things, so he can hear what I say. Secondly, even if he was deaf and blind, now he has all the senses complete, so he can hear what is said. Thirdly, being continually overcome by fear, he is thinking undistractedly what to do, so he listens to what I say. And, fourthly, as the consciousness has no support, it comes directly to wherever the concentration is directed, so it is easy to guide. The mind is nine times more clear, so even if he is stupid, by force of karma the mind becomes so clear at this time that it can meditate on whatever is taught. Essential points such as these are the reason. For the same reason, it is also helpful to perform the rituals for the dead. Therefore, it is very important to persevere in reading this great liberation through hearing for up to nine days. Even if he is not liberated at one showing, he will attain liberation at another. That is the reason why not one but many showings are necessary. Even then, there are many kinds of people who are not used to doing good actions, but were extremely skilled in doing evil actions right from the start, and through the influence of many powerful veils of error, are not liberated, in spite of being shown and given these objects of meditation so many times above. So now, if the womb entrance has not been closed before, a profound instruction for choosing the womb entrance will be taught below. One should call on the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas for help and repeat the refuge, then call the dead person by name three times and say these words. O child of noble family who is dead, listen! Although you have been shown with the instructions above so many times, you have not understood, so now, if the womb entrance has not been closed, the time has come to take a body. There are not one, but many true and profound instructions for you to choose a womb entrance, so understand and do not be distracted. Listen well, with intense concentration, and understand. O child of noble family, now the signs and characteristics of the continent where you are going to be born will appear, so recognize them. Examine where you are going to be born and choose the continent. If you are going to be born in the eastern continent, noble body, you will see a lake adorned with geese and ganders. Think of resistance and do not go there. Although it is full of happiness, it is a place where dharma does not flourish, so do not enter it. If you are going to be born in the southern continent, Roseapple Island, you will see luxurious, beautiful dwellings. You should enter it if you can. If you are going to be born in the western continent, enjoyment of wish-fulfilling cows, you will see a lake adorned with horses and mares. Do not go there, but come back here. Although it has great pleasures, it is a place where dharma does not flourish, so do not enter it. If you are going to be born in the northern continent, unpleasant sound, you will see a lake adorned with cattle or with trees. Recognize them as signs of taking birth and do not enter there. Although it has long life and merits, dharma does not flourish there, so do not enter. If you are going to be born as a god, you will see beautiful, many-storied temples made of various jewels. If you are fit to enter there, you should enter. If you are going to be born as a jealous god, you will see beautiful groves, or what seem to be revolving wheels of fire. Do not enter there at all, but think of resistance. If you are going to be born as an animal, you will see, as through a mist, rock caves and holes in the ground and straw huts. Do not enter there. If you are going to be born as a hungry ghost, you will see tree stumps and black shapes sticking up, shallow caves and black patches. If you go there, you will be born as a hungry ghost and experience all kinds of suffering through hunger and thirst. So do not go there at all, but think of resistance and persevere strongly. If you are going to be born as a hell being, you will hear songs sung by those of evil karma, or you will have to enter helplessly, or you will feel that you have gone into a dark land with black and red houses, black pits and black roads. If you go there, you will enter hell and experience unbearable suffering through heat and cold from which you will never get out. So do not go into its midst. Do not enter at all, but be careful. It is said, close the womb entrance and think of resistance. This is needed now. O child of noble family, even though you wish not to go, you have no power of your own, you are helplessly compelled to go. From behind, the Avengers of Karma pursue you, and in front, Avengers and murderers drag you along. Darkness, hurricanes, violent storms, noises, snow and rain, fierce hailstorms and snowstorms will whirl you around, and you will escape from them. Then in escaping, you will look for a refuge and you will find safety in the luxurious houses described before, or in rock shelters or holes in the ground, between trees, or in the round cavities of lotus flowers and so on. Hidden there, you will be afraid to come out and you will think, I cannot go out of here now. And through fear of leaving you will become very attached to that place. You are afraid of meeting those terrors of the Bardo if you go outside. You feel extreme fear of them. And so you hide inside and take a body, however bad it may be, and will experience all kinds of suffering. That is a sign that demons and evil forces are obstructing you now, and at this time there is a profound instruction, so listen and understand. At this time of terror, when you are helplessly pursued by the avengers, you should immediately visualize with your whole mind the blessed Supreme Haruka, or Hayagriva, or Vajrapani, or your Yadam, if you have one, with a huge body and thick limbs, standing in a terrifying attitude of wrath which crushes all evil forces into dust. Separated from the avengers by His blessing and compassion, you will have the power to choose the entrance of a womb. This is the true profound secret of the instruction, so understand it. O child of noble family, the gods of meditation and so on are born through the power of samadhi. A large class of evil spirits such as hungry ghosts and demons and are transformed into that mental body itself. The hungry ghosts who dwell in the depths of the sea and the hungry ghosts who fly through space and all the 80,000 classes of negative forces and so on have taken on that mental body by changing their attitude. At this time the best thing is to contemplate the great symbol of emptiness, but if you cannot do that, then take part in the play of illusion. If you cannot do that either, at least do not be attached to anything, but meditate on the Yidam, the Lord of great compassion, and you will become a Sambhogakaya Buddha in the Bardo state. O child of noble family, if you have to enter a womb in this way through force of karma, the instruction for choosing the entrance to a womb will now be taught. Listen. Do not go into whatever womb entrance appears. If the Avengers come and you cannot avoid entering, meditate on Hayagriva. Since you now possess subtle supernatural perception, you will know all the places in turn, so make a choice. There are two instructions, for transference to a pure Buddha realm and for choosing an impure samsaric womb entrance, so act in this way. Transference to the pure realm of space, of purified faculties, is directed like this. Ah, how sad it is that I still remain in this muddy swamp of samsara even now, after such a long time of countless ages without beginning or end, and while so many others have already become Buddhas, I have not been liberated. From this moment on, I feel sickened at this samsara. I dread it. I am worn out with it. Now it is time to get ready to escape, so I must bring about a spontaneous birth in a lotus flower at the feet of the Buddha Amitabha in the Western Blissful Realm. With this thought, concentrate intensely on the Blissful Realm in the West. It is vital to make this effort. Or else, if you direct intense concentration, one-pointedly and without distraction, toward whichever realm you wish—the Pure Realm, or Complete Joy, or the palace of lotus light in Urghyan, you will immediately be born in that realm. Or if you wish to go into the presence of Lord Maitreya in the joyful realm, concentrate on this thought. At this moment in the bardo state the time has come for me to go into the presence of the Dharma King Maitreya in the joyful realm, so I will go, and you will be born spontaneously in the heart of a lotus in the presence of Maitreya. Otherwise, if you cannot do this and wish to enter a womb or find you have to enter one, there is an instruction for choosing an impure samsaric womb entrance, so listen. As before, look at the continent you are going to choose with supernatural perception and enter a place where Dharma flourishes. If you're going to be spontaneously born in a filthy dung heap, you will perceive that fetid mass as sweet-smelling, and you will feel attracted to it and be born there. So whatever appears, do not trust it, but put an end to the signs of desire and hatred and choose a womb entrance. Again, it is very important to concentrate like this. I will be born as a universal emperor for the good of all sentient beings, or as a brahmana, like a great sala tree, or as the son of a siddha, or in a family of a pure lineage of dharma, or in a family where the father and mother have faith, and taking a body with merits which can benefit all sentient beings, I will do good." Concentrating on this thought, the womb should be entered. At this time you should bless the womb you are entering as a palace of the gods and supplicate the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas of the ten directions and the yidams, especially the Lord of great compassion, and enter the womb with a longing of a request for transmission. It is possible to make a mistake in choosing the entrance of a womb like this, by seeing a good womb entrance as bad or a bad one as good under the influence of karma. So now again the essential point of the instruction is very important. So do this. Even if a womb entrance appears good, do not trust it, and even if it appears bad, do not feel dislike for it. The true profound essential secret is to enter into the supreme state of equilibrium in which there is no good or bad, acceptance or rejection, passion or aggression. But, except for the few who are experienced in this, it is hard to get rid of the disease of bad unconscious tendencies. So to prevent him taking refuge among sinners of the poorest capacities, the lowest of the low, like beasts, if he cannot cut off passion and aggression in this way, one should call the dead person again by name and say these words. Oh child of noble family, if you do not know how to choose a womb entrance and cannot get rid of passion and aggression, whatever of the above experiences may arise, call on the name of the three jewels and take refuge in them. Supplicate the Lord of great compassion. Go on with your head held high. Give up attachment and yearning for the relatives and friends, sons and daughters you have left behind. They cannot help you. Enter now into the blue light of human beings or the white light of the gods. Enter the jeweled palaces and the pleasure gardens." This should be repeated up to seven times. Then one should supplicate the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas and read the Bardo prayer, which protects from fear, the main verses of the Bardo, and deliverance from the dangerous pathway of the Bardo, up to seven times. Then one should read the liberation through wearing, which spontaneously liberates the skandhas, and the daily practice, which spontaneously liberates the unconscious tendencies, clearly and distinctly. Thus, by acting rightly, yogins of the highest insight affect the ejection of consciousness in the bardo of the moment before death and do not have to wander in the bardo state but bypass it and attain liberation. Below them, a few experienced people recognize the luminosity of the moment before death, and bypass and become Buddhas. Those below them are liberated in accordance with their karmic results at one time or another when the peaceful and wrathful projections appear in the bardo of Dharmatā during the following weeks. As there are many stages, they will recognize whichever is appropriate and attain liberation. But those whose good karmic results are weak and who have many veils of error and very bad karma must wander on down to the bardo of becoming. But as there are many showings, like the steps of a ladder, they will recognize at one or another and be liberated. But if those whose good karmic results are very weak do not recognize during the above and are overpowered by fear, there is a series of instructions in turn for closing the womb entrance and for choosing a womb entrance. So they will recognize it one or another and trusting the object of meditation attain the highest state of boundless virtue. Even the lowest of the low, like beasts, are turned back from the lower realms by the virtue of taking refuge. They will attain a precious human body complete with all the freedoms and good opportunities and in their next life meet a holy guru, a spiritual friend. So they will get instruction and be liberated. If this teaching is received during the bardo of becoming, the instruction prolongs one's good karmic results, like putting a pipe into a broken water channel. It is impossible even for all great sinners not to be liberated when they hear this teaching. Why is this? Because during the Bardo both the compassionate invitation of all the peaceful and wrathful Buddhas and deities and the invitation of the tempters and negative forces come together. So just by hearing the teaching at this time their attitude is influenced and they attain liberation. Influence is easy because the mental body has no basis of flesh and blood. However far they have wandered in the bardo state, they see and hear with subtle karmic supernatural perception and they come. This is extremely helpful for them they understand and their mind is instantaneously influenced. It is like the device of a catapult or like a huge tree trunk which cannot be moved by a hundred men, but when it is put in water can be taken wherever one wants in a moment. It is like controlling a horse with a bridle. Therefore one should approach all who have died, and if the corpse is present a friend should read this reminder again and again until blood and pus come out of the nostrils. Meanwhile the corpse should remain undisturbed. The observances for this are animals should not be sacrificed for dedication to the dead person. In the presence of the corpse, friends and relations should not weep and mourn and make noise, which may be done elsewhere, and as many acts of virtue as possible should be done. As well as this teaching of the great liberation through hearing, it is very good if any of the other teachings joined to the end of this instruction are also read. One should read this continually and learn the word meanings and terms by heart. Then when death is certain and the signs of death have been recognized, if one's condition allows, one should read it aloud oneself and contemplate it. And if one is not able to do that, it should be given to a Dharma brother or sister to read, for this reminder will certainly liberate. There is no doubt. This teaching does not need any practice. It is a profound instruction which liberates just by being seen and heard and read. This profound instruction leads great sinners on the secret path. If one does not forget its words and terms even when being chased by seven dogs, the instruction liberates in the bardo of the moment before death. Even if the Buddhas of the past, present and future were to search, they would not find a better teaching than this. The Bardo instruction which liberates human beings the profound innermost essence, the great liberation through hearing. This treasure was discovered by the siddha Karmalingpa in the mountain of Gampodar. May it benefit the Dharma and all sentient beings.

1:02:31
Sarva Mangalam. Hello, welcome back.

1:02:37
So that was actually pretty intense. All right, we are going to take some questions. If you have any questions, you can type them in the chat to Savitri, and she will gather the questions and either ask me or she may answer them. We each have studied the bardos quite a bit, but we have slightly different areas of expertise within the bardos. Savitri is more of an expert in the end-of-life process and the support right after. And then I've done more of the study of how to support someone coming into a new life through the pregnancy and birth process. So we both know all the Bardo's, but have our own little special focuses as well.

1:03:38
Questions are already flowing in. So we probably just have 10 or 15 minutes for questions.

1:03:43
So we'll try to get through as many as we can. So one says, Go in order. Will Christians experience the bardos with more Christian imagery relevant to their culture?

1:03:54
Good question. Yes

1:03:56
The text is coming from the Tibetan culture, so there's a lot of very Tibetan imagery in it and the energies behind them are experienced universally, but what

1:04:07
visual experience or mental experience you actually have, it's coming from your own mind. All of these projections are coming from your own mind, so your mental conditioning will have an influence on it. Ajahn mentioned that Soong is already going to a specific place. As he's only in the second bardo, how do we know where he is going? That's a good interesting question. So time in the Bardo's is very different from time the way we experience it here. Sort of like how in dreams time is really different. Like you may take a nap for 15 minutes and have an experience of an adventure that lasts months. It's kind of the same sort of concept. So when we do the bardo blessing for someone, we're supporting them through all of the four bardos, providing specific bits of help that pertain to each bardo, even though we say that in our time, they're in a certain bardo still, the lesson or the support has already been provided to them and we can try to explain even, but we can see how they've responded to it and what they've

1:05:49
done with it. Do you have anything to add, Meiji? No, because I'm scanning the questions. Okay. It's a lot, so we guys, I probably will not get through all of them, so I'll just pick some that we'll be happy to figure out structures for getting the rest of the questions answered later. If there's no more body after someone died, how does the person keep hearing, seeing, and experiencing?

1:06:15
I can't really answer how in terms of the mechanism,

1:06:18
but what they do still have is awareness. They have consciousness. So they're not

1:06:21
hearing as in like, you know, air molecules bouncing on an eardrum hearing, but they are, they still have the awareness of something. Looks like we have a couple questions where Ajaan mentioned in the beginning of this talk

1:06:41
that once a being enters the bardo of becoming, they will reincarnate, but a few people noticed

1:06:47
that the book made it sound like there are still some opportunities to not reincarnate by closing the womb entrance. Yeah, I was thinking about that too while we were listening.

1:06:59
And when we wrote Enlightened Pregnancy, the part of Enlightened Pregnancy that is dealing with that same topic isn't talking about how to not be born. It's talking about how to not just mindlessly follow your karma. to pause and be still and have a moment of clarity and enlightenment. So it's less about not being born than about not just tumbling down the mountain accidentally. How should people practice these teachings systematically in day-to-day life?

1:07:56
Maybe we can modify that a bit to talk about how we've worked on them over the years, personally. I can start with that one because I actually think it'll be different for each person. So, as Sumbara may have shared earlier, Kamal and I have a lot of tonal around this. We invest a lot, but the ways that we expressed it were different in the things that we worked on. So for example, I've been a hospice volunteer and spent a long time doing that.

1:08:37
But Kamala hasn't done that,

1:08:38
but she's done a lot with babies and pregnancy and things. So I think it can be unique to you and you can find a way that works for you. Something I did do a lot of was listening to this recording. So I must have listened to it at least dozens of times, maybe a hundred times, I don't know. Because sometimes I would just put it on and play it, even as I'm doing other things, just to have it in my consciousness. And I would notice, each time I listened to it, I continued to notice new things.

1:09:08
So that's part of it.

1:09:09
And then for me, understanding the five Buddha families has been profound really and that's something that I feel like I can work with in day-to-day life understanding where is the encumbered energy coming up in a particular situation and how might I understand that's corresponding wisdom and intend to transmute it into that.

1:09:29
And a couple things I'd like to add to that which is that you don't have to do that much with the bardos. Like, some people think this is a fun thing to learn about, like Sivitri and I do, and then you can do all that. But it's not core to everyone's practice. As a sangha, we generally listen to this text from time to time, usually around the time of someone's passing as a support to them, and gradually learn more and more over the years.

1:10:15
What can we do in this life to be liberated after death?

1:10:20
Meditation and bodhicitta.

1:10:25
Yeah, that's the core piece of advice I received from Ajahn when I was saying that I really wanted to understand death, understand death through meditation. And ideally, you'll be liberated in this lifetime. But if not, and you're an extremely adept practitioner, then you do have that opportunity right at the beginning when the dharmakaya opens up, then as you heard throughout the Pardos as well.

1:10:52
So many questions, you guys. How do you define a state of mind at death? Does it depend on the height of spiritual awareness of this lifetime? You want me to try that one? So it's really you know in each moment you can be aware of your consciousness and your current state of mind and

1:11:10
you can feel if you're in a bright and expansive consciousness or you can tell if you're in a restrained consciousness, feeling fearful or concerned or angry or those sorts of things. And so ideally at the moment of your death you'll be in a really expansive state, maybe even sitting in meditation or meditating lying down as most people if you don't die a die in a bed of some kind. So even as your body is deteriorating, your mind can be really tremendously bright and that's really what you want. And so I do think that that is a culmination of your spiritual awareness that you've built during this life that ideally you've worked on throughout your life because that makes that end of life much easier to drop into states of wisdom and compassion. But a lot of times people find out that they're dying and that's an opportunity for spiritual transformation and they really start to

1:12:32
do that work and can die in a bright state of mind. Anything to add? I'd say in addition to your habitual state of mind and your ability to practice, doing things like wrapping up loose ends in your life and forgiving people and asking for their forgiveness and letting them know that you love them. All of these things can help your spirit be at peace, which helps you to be in a higher state of mind.

1:13:04
Which reminds me that we practice that every equinox and solstice. We try to take care of our unfinished business, have things clean and tidy, have everything in order, and that's so that you can have this transformative spiritual experience. So do the same thing related to your death. Wow. There are a whole lot of questions left. A lot of them are pretty intricate so I'm just gonna pick a few more and then we'll conclude and I'll try to copy paste and see if I can get back to some of you separately. This one's sweet. If someone dies at the same time as a guru or spiritual master are they in the bardo together? I don't know for sure but I would say if they have a connection to that particular being, then I would expect so. And then if that particular being has skills in the bardos, then it may not matter whether they're alive or passed away, they will offer their support to Soong and to many others. What about when a baby dies who has not had the chance to become spiritually aware? Is the Bardo process similar?

1:14:50
So, if a baby dies before they've even really completely come out of the last bardo, they actually don't have to repeat the whole process. They just sort of go opportunity to be born again. For children a little bit later, or older babies, it's sort of more like what they were talking about where even if you were blind or deaf, once so you have all of your senses again, it's your particular condition of your body isn't so relevant.

1:15:47
So I'll pick one more as our last question and this one says, can they hear our thoughts? Which I think means as a person in the Bardo, can they feel us and understand our sense of support and intentions?

1:16:09
Do you want to respond?

1:16:16
I think so. I think the book, the Bard of the Doll, expresses that pretty clearly, too, that your own state of consciousness is, because you have a connection to that person, is influencing them, which is why it's important to have a right state of mind. It doesn't mean that, you know, you will also grieve when someone you love dies, and grief is not a bad thing in my perspective, but certainly you still have this relationship. Very much so when they're in the second bardo, as Ajahn was describing earlier, it's like the person's right there. But even in the third bardo and beyond, you will continue to have this connection to their eternal spirit and you can offer your love and support at any point

1:17:05
that you wish to. I'd like to add one thing, which is that I think sometimes people get confused confused by thinking that since you can project your thoughts with your intention, like in the form of a prayer or intending something towards the person, that they can hear every little thing that you're thinking. And don't worry about that. It's not like they can read the transcript of your thoughts. So if you're nervous that there's some ghost spying on you, don't be nervous about that. But if you are intending to communicate with someone, that's what's effective.

1:17:46
There are some more, I copy-pasted them. I'll read them in detail and possibly reply to some of you privately. Okay, and we're going to take another 10-minute

1:17:55
break and then Ajaan is going to come back and say a few more words. So come break and then Ajaan is going to come back and say a few more words. So come back at 1221. Thank you everybody.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
