0:00:00
So my name is Lila, just a quick introduction if you haven't met me before. I got liberated about nine months ago and I'm here tonight to share the story of my liberation with you and give you a quick transmission about the light of my liberation. But first let's start with the three song meditation. First song on the navel, second on the heart and the third on the third eye. Relax.

0:00:44
Okay, let's begin. so so so the the the so so so so so so I'm not afraid of the dark I'm not afraid of the dark I'm not afraid of the dark So so so so so so so so I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. Thank you...... the the the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone I'm here today to share my journey to primary enlightenment.

0:14:59
I would like to start by saying, when I'm talking, just try to listen to the... read between the lines. This is going to be my personal journey, starting from beginning. How it started? It started a long, long time ago in a far away galaxy. And now you can read the Star Wars thing. That's it. Well, yeah, I'm from Budapest and it was about 16 years ago when I met Samvara. It was a beautiful darshan in Budapest and first time when I met him, first time when I saw him I had this feeling, this connection, probably all of you had this. And I felt that I connected with my lineage. And I really felt drawn to his teachings, everything that he was saying, it seemed true. And I felt a deep love towards this lineage. So, after this first Darshan, we were gathering outside with a couple of Hungarian friends who are here tonight. I wasn't speaking English at that time, so I made a good job learning since then. But I was just telling them, like, can you translate for me? And they're like, yeah, sure. I just really wanted to let them know that I think I can become enlightened. That was my first message after that darshan. I was extremely happy. And there was Mandala also with them. She's a beautiful, enlightened woman. And she just looked at me and she was just smiling and her eyes were glowing and we were looking into each other's eyes. And I had this feeling of, I am you. I think I am you and you are me and we are one. This beautiful unity arose between us and it was an amazing moment which told me that, yeah, I can become enlightened in this lifetime. And I was so sure that I acted like it's already happened. Like I was running on the street at night to my car and jumping up and laughing and you know like a little child, like yes I did it. I mean, you know, of course you don't do it, it just happens by grace to you. But then I just was so innocent about it, like, yes, it happened. And then that was my, that was a sign for me, like, okay, I found my lineage and this is the right thing to do. So I started to attend seminars regularly and I applied to become a student of Sambara, and he accepted me. Although in the beginning part, you guys know that the beginner part usually starts with a great innocence. When you're so like excited and it's new and your cup is completely empty. Well, my cup was not empty. So I wasn't a perfect student back then and I'm not there still. But I'm working on it. That's what we do. What else can we do? So, yeah, I've been attending previous spiritual events and I read a lot of spiritual books before, so I got an idea about what enlightenment is. And I also felt since my birth that I'm a very advanced soul and I'm psychic, so I know better. So that came out, yes, on the beginner path. In order to have a strong foundation, first I have to empty my container, which was really hard, but I knew that that's what I needed to do in order to go all the way. There's a beautiful analogy, or more a scene from a movie I saw with Charlize Theron, and And she was explaining to the children how a container is full or empty. So first she was filling up this big glass container with three big rocks. And the three big rocks were for me the real foundations, you know what we do, meditation, mindfulness, yoga. So, and then she asked, is this full, the container is full? And they said, yes, it's full. And then she pulled out another container which was filled with sand. So she poured the sand in this glass container around the big three rocks. And she asked again, so the container is full? And we said, yes, it's full. And then she pulled out another container of water and she poured the water on the sand. And she asked, is the container full? And the children said, yes, it's full now. So, you can fill up your container, but if you don't put in the three big rocks in the beginning, the three foundations, then they will never fit. You know, it will be a messy job. So like, no, first I want my intermediate teachings and then the advanced, and then, oh, I need the, kind of the beginner, the foundation, you know, have the meditation down, and a little bit of mindfulness would be good, and a little bit of like selfless work, like action, to do your day job. So, yeah, this is a really, really beginner... the beginner path taught me to let go my ideas about what's spiritual, what's good for me, and really start with the empty mind. So, on the beginner path, back then, I did many things. Meditation, of course, chakra meditation, mindfulness, we did karma yoga as sales QA, and we did cold calls back then So a lot of fun things. I was also part of the executive team. Some of you are here, Dakini and Arunachala. That was amazing. Five women leading the projects in Hungary. And, yeah, I think I was a representation of the spirit back then. and everyone had a quality like a force and mind. It was a lot of good lessons about how women can really learn to work together and how they can use their power and selflessness and compassion to make something work. And of course, I wasn't a good student as I mentioned, so I got fired from the Sangha because my sales qualities were not hitting the level. So I was, oh my god, I That was really, really, like, crushed me inside. I felt like, wow, I finally found my sangha. I feel good with these people. But I wasn't pushing enough. And someone told me, it's really beautiful that you're trying. It's nice to see that you're trying, but it's not enough. And it wasn't, because I was really just, I don't know, like being there, but I wasn't really even trying. So he showed me to find my personal power, to really do something, to really go beyond my obstacles, my barriers. And of course, later, after three months, we got the opportunity to do something amazing like present to the sangha or work on some yoga project. And then it showed us that we pushed through that certain level and we were able to come back to the sangha. And I just met a lot of other people. Raja. Sorry. I had to mention you. I don't feel so bad that I'm alone.

0:25:15
Yes.

0:25:16
So, yeah, we are here, right? We made it. Good.

0:25:24
Yep.

0:25:25
And then, of course, it wasn't enough, because my mind still was like wishy-washy, you know, going spacing out, you know? I was the space out being, so everyone has a quality. And I think I was, it was tattooed on my forehead, like spaced out, and every time in somewhere I gave a dormitory, he was always yelling at me, like, you're spaced out, you're spaced out, and eventually I felt like, oh my God, I am spaced out. So I recognized, I am spaced out. So I spaced out. I quit from the sangha. And then about after two years, or I'm not sure, maybe three, but something like that, for a year, I was out and I'm trying to get my shit together, basically. I did some yoga, hatha yoga, and other meditations. and I bowed to the ground, prayed to these gurus in like orange robes and you know, whatever you can. I did whatever I could. But then I was like sitting there in India at this beautiful avatar's feet and it was amazing powerful, but I felt something is missing, something is wrong. I need to get back to my path, my sangha. So after that three weeks I was I guess here or something. So it was very fast. After I decided it took almost no time to be back to the sangha. So yeah, I was so excited because finally I didn't have to do cold calls and sales and going for like selling a software and I didn't know anything about software. So I was like, Oh my God, this is something I could actually do. And actually I can learn how karma yoga really feels like. I was so happy. Even Kali was our teacher and maybe Zen too. For me, it's a new world, a new dimension opened up with this. I was so excited. I was coding for 24 hours in a row. I couldn't sleep. I was just staring at the code, like the screen, and code, and code and I went into this amazing beautiful dimensions I never knew about and I noticed that it cleared my mind, it removed my problems and my obstacles in life and I became stronger. I first in my life experienced Nirvana. You guys know this is the transmission for Nirvana. It was really something. final strength I had to gain before I made a big decision to move to here from Hungary, which happened really quick. I got the opportunity very soon again to come here and work in LA to a friend's company, which was again very challenging. We moved into a yoga house. Jing is saying yeah. So five girls from Hungary and some from here, the US. So we moved five girls in a yoga house in LA. We called it the LA Yoga Dojo, which was 24-7, like you were like they're on you, like not day, the light, the light is on you, the enlightenment is on you, the practice is on you, the yoga is on you. So everything what we did together, that was about meditation together, wake up 6am. I usually like to sleep in till 10. Not now, but at that time I was like very lazy. I like to stay awake till 3am and then go to sleep. So then it was harder for me to, again, come out of my routine. And we meditated together. We did martial arts together. We worked together at the same company, and we worked on polishing our tech skills as well, and ideas. Yeah. Yeah. I learned I was always very sensitive being so I always felt everything is taught around me. But by being with these five girls together and living together, I learned that really the Sangha is a third jewel in Buddhism. I really felt that it's the greatest value on your path when you're working with someone else and sharing. You You know, we progressed so much faster together as girls, even if it was hard, it was really hard and we had clashes a lot, but we progressed so much faster that way. Without isolation, you know, there was no chance to hide. Everything was in your face. This is who you are. You reacted, that's you. Like Sampara, this is what she did to me. And she's always like, no, this is what you are doing to yourself. And anyway, you know, look, look into yourself. This is a mirror to you. And we were like, oh, really, the mirror was always in our face. I am her, we are one. She's just showing me something, such a blessing. So value these yoga projects, and especially girls, when you're working together. This is the greatest jewel, sangha. So after the beginner path, the intermediate path was about gaining enough personal power to get to a level when you are, So yeah, after these projects, we all came up to Silicon Valley, got our own apartments, our own tech jobs, and we kept working on yoga projects. teaching technology to some of you, assisted you to get your first tech jobs, and was a leader of Golden State Technology. I gained my martial arts black belt. Awesome. Which is really amazing. I don't know how I did it But it happened it was very powerful martial arts Practice on our pad for women, especially It's so powerful It gives you more balance more mindfulness

0:34:16
sharper attention

0:34:18
And also it's a beautiful integration to see how balanced you are when you're practicing, right? How is your defense? How hardness you are, right? So martial arts is amazing. It's tracking, it's a tracker. It tracks you like, where are you with your mindfulness? Where are you with your balance, your personal power? So yeah, I just did everything what you guys do. Also, another beautiful practice we do, scuba diving. That's magical. That's when another samadhi happened, the underwater samadhi. You guys probably experienced it when you go scuba trips with Samvara and you go underwater below 150 feet, oh sorry, 120 feet! Just a mistake, edited out. And then you're just gone. And then you're still there, you have still the power of your first attention to manage to breathe, to come up safely, right? You're going to the dead ground. And you're experiencing amazing, beautiful openness and emptiness and Samadhi. And you're completely relaxed, completely let go. And you're one with that ocean, and you're really that ocean, and it just carries you, right? And you still know how to take those breaks, the safety breaks, and it's completely relaxed and safe. I remember last time when we went scuba diving with Sonjara was there and she was telling me, I just looked into your eyes and I saw that you weren't there. But when I looked at you, you said this, so I thought it's good. And I saw that you had a line, which it was holding, like it was just connecting to you, that little line. So you were gone, but that little line was there. So it's good to know that my line was my personal power, right? Because if you don't have that line, you're gone. So it's really about life But also animals, connecting with animals like dolphins. Dolphin is my omakua. When I first looked into dolphins' eyes, I felt that that's enlightenment. They are enlightened. That's it. And it's so happy and beautiful. And they healed me in so many ways. My subtle physical body was really damaged, and those animals were just totally transforming and healing. So I think everything in nature is enlightenment. I think animals, like, enlightenment comes through in everything in nature. Animals, trees, air in this room, through you guys, everything. We practice Bodhicitta also. You guys also practice Bodhicitta on the intermediate path, taking and sending compassion. And eventually it opened up for me the practice of bodhicitta. It opened up a new door to a new compassion, continuous letting go, and surrendering to what is without resisting to it. The advanced part was tricky because I was not aware that I got to the advanced part. It just started to happen around me, so I noticed like, wow, something feels really weird, something shifted. I know it's many advanced students here tonight, so probably we're going to talk about that deepness of the advanced part more in another session, when it's just you and me, so I can be honest. Today I'm just gonna be the sugar coat. It's all good, it's powerful, it's happy, it's enlightening, it's very powerful, it's enough. So, when I got to the Advent path, there's a beautiful thing happened to me in the sangha, which I was able to work with the caregiving team, many of you know Yana sensei. together with a team to take care of him, to help him, to heal. But eventually, while I was there, I noticed I'm just also there with him to die, because that's when myself died, through this beautiful yoga. While I was with him, every moment was about him. It was complete selflessness, total renunciation. All sense of self was gone. It was about every moment, because every moment could have been the last. And I wanted to give the best for that one moment. So those are the best moments of my life with him. I spent with him and the team, working with this team. night and day and shifts and beyond the yogas and everything. That was like real warriors. We really cared from deep in our hearts for his being to pass in the best way we could. Yeah, rest in peace. So eventually, well, I got some temptations from Mara. If you saw Buddha's path, Mara's tempting him. Oh, same happened to me. So while I was with the caregiving team, I was, you know, pushing through the advance practice and path and I was running at night, every night for two hours in the rain, cold rain, it was like raining cold and I was running, you know, see a breath and sometimes crying as well, because it was hard. So I'm just like purging all of the toxicity from some scars, from past life tendencies, like pushing through all of those things. And there was a family next to the fireplace. Beautiful scene. It was just perfect. It's like, wow, it's people around the table having dinner, they have peace, they're laughing, listening beautiful music. And what am I doing here? I'm just running the circles and this cold rain. Am I crazy? And I was like, yes, this is what I want. This is what I want. This is what I want. I want to push through my things, my desires, my fears, my samskaras, these deep past life tendencies, which was like, if sometimes my knee was hurting so much and I was like, I don't care. I'm going to run. And it was hurting for 20 minutes, but afterwards went away. No more knee pain. So it could not stop me. So it went away. Same thing like desires and fears and all of this raw ropes holding you just kept letting go one by one and it felt easier So then I recognized that I can run in the Sun as well and there is no need to cold and rain So you better change and there were like hummingbirds around me and it becomes so happy So like the same situation you're running but without all of this tendencies, ropes, it was so much more real, natural, free, flowing, flowing with life. I also recognized that I did things differently than before. Like, stopped chasing enlightenment. Like, before I was running after enlightenment. Like, no, I have to become enlightened, that's what I want. I don't want anything else now, just this. And I just recognized that, oh, I don't even chase enlightenment anymore. I don't really want enlightenment anymore. I feel like I'm good. You know, I was like, oh, okay, good. I was more truthful to myself also. So, you know, the mirror of perception, you guys, all of you, the sangha, everyone I look at, it just showed me who I am. Everything. When I looked at someone, I was like, Oh, this is in me. Okay. This is who I am. So like, accept it. I accept that I'm beautiful. I accept that I'm compassionate. I accept that I'm needy. And I accept that I'm fearful. And I accept that I am everything what I saw around me. It's not just the good things, the bad things too. You have to be honest eventually and truthful that, you know, good and bad, it's just in the same soup, right? It's just spices, like what would we be without that? Oh, so boring. It's a boring soup. Also, I stopped competing for the best yogi title. You guys know, if you're in the intermediate class, you know about this, like, we become black belts on the yoga spreadsheets. I became black belt and I was like always shrugging myself like, okay, I'm a black belt now. So I'm that, okay, I'm good. I'm a good yogi. How can I be better? Of course, you always want to excel and be better. But then I recognize that I don't have to. I'm good enough. I'm good enough for myself. You know, you don't have to compete with others and yourself. Don't do it. It's not natural. Just do it because it feels good and you're happy. And it happens that, oh, you are the best yogi because you are the happiest while you are doing it. And you had an amazing time doing it. You probably all know about this. You're working on so many amazing yoga projects. I don't have to tell you about it.

0:48:07
Also, I started to renounce what I had and offered it to others.

0:48:12
It also came naturally to me. It's not like I walked at the homeless person and I gave him all of my money. But every situation when I thought that something I could give is needed there, I always thought like, oh, that other person needs it more than I do because I don't need anything anymore. I don't need things anymore. I'm happy as just to be as I am. So, it's just things. Um, oh, it's about eight. So, okay, I have to, like, go a little bit more because I wanted to share my last samskara, which was an attachment to the teacher and teacher's idea and the teachings, of course. It came from my bhakti practice and bhakti past lives, probably some skoras I've been carrying. You know, like when you are putting the teacher is the most enlightened, perfect being, but you don't see it in yourself. So eventually, Samara helped me to see this by pointing it out like, this is your last samskara. We were sitting in a bench and he was like pushing my red buttons and trying to like make me see it, but I couldn't till that point. And I recognized that shift. Like he said it like million times, but I would not see it. It's just, I couldn't. And at that point, some magical, I don't know if it was grace probably or some angel, I was sitting there and it was clear. It just hit me like you know when the Muhammad Ali hit you in the face. That was like that. I was KO'd by the truth came from somewhere and I was like sitting and just looking with big eyes and I was like it was in my face. It came into my being, it was like my aura opened up and it just came in my being and I was like, Oh my God, you are right. And it went away. And it never came back. So I felt after that point really happy, really flowing. I was okay. Now I felt like nothing really can stop you after that. Really, it's just weeks and you're gonna get liberated by grace again. That's what Samara told me. So I was like, yeah, I think that's true. And it happened a couple weeks after, as he suggested. Nirvana. It was not Nirvana, it was nirvana. Nirvana happened while we were talking together, sitting together. It was a moment of truth. He was again being very graceful and excellent teacher, as he always was, pushing my red buttons and yelling at me. And it's a grace, it's a grace guys. So when I was sitting there and seeing his effort, how hardly he tries. And he did everything really, he brought up all sorts of things and throw it in my face and I was just, oh my God, I have to become liberated because he's trying so hard. I just don't, I don't wanna, I don't wanna disappoint him or something like, I think he deserves this or something. Like I was so selfless about it, not to do it for myself. Like, oh, he wants this. I think he believes that it's possible for me. So, I told him, like, can I just say something? I stopped him and he said, sure. And I was like, I think I don't need any more teachings. It seemed like with the teacher, it's exactly the same thing. If you give me more teachings, it's the same. I just want the next teaching. But I don't need that, I think I'm good." And then I closed my eyes and there was an energetic upward and downward movement and I totally ascended and everything became gold light. Everything became gold light. cold light and I don't know what happened then. It was really nothingness and very soft like you're disappearing into the air, into the Atman, into yourself turning into each other. It was just disappearing into somewhere, a different realm which I never experienced before, when I had Salvakapa Samadhis, before it was always like some bursting out God-like feeling when you're like, I'm God, and it's so blissful and so amazing, you cannot just get over it. You stuck there. But this was something was not about me or God or bliss or anything, nothing you could say, it was just naturally being itself. And then after the advance, the symbol of the advance practice appeared inside me and it radiated with this white gold light, which had this rainbow like sparkly colors in it, and it stayed. So this is the light of my liberation I would like to share with you tonight. And I would like to give a transmission which will take about seven minutes. So everyone, please sit up straight and focus slightly on your third eye. And you can keep your eyes open and look into me. Or if you don't feel comfortable, you can close it a little bit and open it again. So it's a light gazing. Enjoy. Let's begin.

0:55:27
so So So So So so So, so the the the the Thank you. Finally, I would like to tell you guys that everyone can become enlightened. In fact, everyone is enlightened. You can recognize that you are, so it's possible.

1:01:04
Rama told me it's possible. I had doubts, so I asked him, Roma, what if I can't become enlightened before I die? That would be horrible. And he looked at me, and he smiled, and he said, everyone can become enlightened except you. So I was like, oh my God, this is the funniest thing I've ever heard. So I started to laugh and laugh and went into this laughing, laughing half an hour. I couldn't stop. I was just laughing and laughing. I went to the bathroom because I had to go and laughing and laughing. I couldn't stop. Oh my God, this is the most amazing laughing dimension I've ever been pulled into. So it's a funny thing when you say, can I do it? Of course. Everyone can do it. If you want it. If you want it, you'll do it. You'll have it. You are it, actually. And so, don't wait also. Don't wait for years if they tell you that's my message to you, because I didn't know that I'm on an advanced path or I got any empowerment or any teachings about being advanced. So if you're on an intermediate path, don't wait for any next teaching or the next empowerment. You can just do it now. Everyone, like a beginner too. Like it's really like not about what you do or what you fight for. It's really about grace. If you're letting it in, if you're surrendering yourself into it. Like imagine that you are here in this room and the air is enlightenment. Wow! You are in it. We are it and in it. So, I just wanted to give you an encouragement that, don't wait, you can do it. And it's beautiful. This is liberation, so my state is liberation. So after liberation, there is more. This is just the beginning. Every end is a beginning. So it keeps going and growing and working on itself, integrating itself, embodying itself. So it's a being, it's alive, and it never ends. It just keeps going. Every day is a new day of enlightenment. And it's worth every single trouble and suffering and overwork and yoga and pushing and surrendering, like loving everything. and surrendering, like loving everything. So thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
