0:00:00
Hello!

0:00:07
Welcome to Thought Song. We're going to begin with something novel. Meditation. So we're going to start with meditation. One song on the heart. Sit up nice and straight. Let's begin.

0:00:27
look nice and straight. Let's begin. the the the so So the the the the so so You So today, I'd like to talk about the fifth point of mind training. So we're progressing here.

0:04:50
We've gone through the first four points, the preliminaries, the first point, the actual practice, which is ultimate bodhicitta, tonglen, second point, and then we spent a good amount of time working on the third point, transforming adverse conditions into the pathway of awakening. And then we've spent some time working also with Bardo teachings on the fourth point, that bodhicitta, utilizing bodhicitta in your whole life. which is the extent of proficiency in mind training. This is an important time. This is a time where we reflect upon our experiences in Bodhicitta. It's a time where we check, we see how we're doing. We see what's working, what is real, what is true. We have a clear seeing. It's a very important time for tone out. When there's that recognition of where something worked, then it propels you forward. And when you're able to see, when you're at this kind of checking zone, checkpoint. You can also see what doesn't work, what you gotta get rid of. So this is a checkpoint where we see what's working, what's not, what's legit, and what isn't. So there was this guy driving from, this is an American guy in an American car, driving from Mexico at an obscure crossing somewhere in Texas, trying to get back into the United States. But at this little crossing, there was border patrol. So they you know they catch him over at the checkpoint. He's the only car and the border agent comes over looks in the car says, what you got? You know where you coming from? He notices in the back seat there's this blanket and he sees the blanket move. So he says, what do you got in the back seat? And the man goes, nothing just a blanket. And then he goes, I gotta see this. So he goes over, opens the back door, pulls the blanket off, and there's a South American puma. And he says to the guy, wow, he said, this is illegal, trying to bring a puma into the US. He's like, I'm gonna arrest you, and you're gonna get jail time, and you're gonna get fines. And then the man says, why? He goes, because that's a puma. He says, it's not a puma, it's a dog that disguises itself as a puma. And then the border patrol agent says, that's impossible. What are you talking about? He goes, no, let me show you. You know, I'll take a stick, I'll throw the stick, he goes and fetches it, and when he comes back, he'll be a dog. And then the border agent goes, alright, I gotta see this. So a man gets out, takes the puma out, throws the stick, there's like this forest nearby, throws it into the forest. And the puma goes running into the forest. And then they're sitting there waiting for a couple minutes. And then the border agent says, well, where's the dog? And then the guy says, What dog? He goes, Well, you know, the dog that turns into a, disguises itself as a puma. And he's like, That's ridiculous. So he goes, Okay. No, no evidence. Let me into the country. Checkpoint. You gotta see what works, and the stuff you gotta get rid of. So in any endeavor, you're working on it, you're trying to learn it, you're practicing it, and at some point you have to say, am I gaining proficiency? Am I learning something? Is this real to me? You have to at some point reflect on your progress. So this is the teaching where you have that time to take a look, to check, to reflect on what's working. There was once a very disturbed monk in the Himalayas, and he was really upset. So it started off where he was angry, and then he got ill, and then he was sad. So he once got these very well-crafted, kind of very high-end shoes. So walking, you know, in the monastery he wouldn't wear shoes. But when he had to go and hike, you know, across to a different ashram or to the village. In the Himalayas there was rocks and there was snow and things like that. So these shoes were very, very, very helpful and he really liked them. And then one of the older monks looked at him and was like, hmm, you like that too much. And so the senior monk took the shoes from him and gave him a pair of bad shoes, older shoes that didn't work as good. And then the older monk used the senior monk's kind of fellow shoes. And this made him really angry. He's all, I like those shoes. And so he was not eating well, not sleeping well. His anger had got him all upset and so he was weakened. And then the last thing was that while he was really sad that he couldn't go see his mother before she passed away. And he didn't study the Bhārata-tattva. So he's all upset, and all sad, and angry, and sick. So one day, a famous mystic Buddhist came to his ashram and gave a talk. And he saw something in that Buddhist master that could help him. So he goes over to him and says, please help me. I'm sick, I'm angry, and I'm sad. And then the master says, okay, I'll help you. He said, all right, so tomorrow we're going to go on a long, long hike. And on this long, long hike, we're going to go, it's a pilgrimage, to a famous spiritual mountain called Kailas." And then the monk said, okay, okay, I'll come. Even though it was a long trip for them, many, many days, weeks to get there. And then once you get there, you have to climb to the top, which is a lot of work. So he says, okay. He's like, do you think I could do it? Because I'm so sickly. Sure, sure, of course. And so the master had a whole bunch of dried yak meat. He's like, all you'll eat is yak meat. It's power food. And so he's like, wait for me master. And every time he says wait for me then the master would throw him a piece of dried yak meat and go eat it and keep up. So he would eat it and he would struggle to keep up. And then if they get to the mountain, they climb up to the mountain on the top, meditate on top, and then climb back down. It's actually quite a pilgrimage, very powerful pilgrimage. And so then he says, Master, what about enlightenment? I wanted to get rid of all my afflictions to be enlightened. He goes, oh yes, we'll get to that. And then he's like, and then the master says, okay, so now we're going to go down into the foothills of the Himalayas, down to the Ganga, and you get rid of your little slippers." And he's like, that's so far from here. We have to go through the ice. We have to go through the snow. We have to go on rocky paths. And then, you know, this is going to be extremely difficult on my poor feet, on my soles. And then the Master goes, you know, the Master also takes off his slippers and says, we go barefoot. So he said, okay. So they're walking down the path. It's icy, it's cold, it's snowy, there's lots of sharp rocks. And so the monk is all, ouch, my feet, ooh, ow, my feet, ooh, it's cold,

0:15:30
toes are cold.

0:15:31
And then they make their way down, they get into the foothills, they eventually get to the Ganga and then they meditate there. And then after meditation, feeling pretty good, he goes, okay, Master, what about the enlightenment part? I want to get past my affliction so I can be enlightened. Master says, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Oh, another place to go, back up to the Himalayas. And so they go back up in the Himalayas. They go to this stupa. The stupa's kind of like an outdoor altar.

0:16:08
It's the stupa for Taurus.

0:16:10
And so they go to this, and they see this beautiful view from the stupa over the mountains.

0:16:16
They meditate there.

0:16:18
Then they go to another stupa, another long, long, long hike. This is the stupa of Vajrayogini, another female Bodhisattva. And then they have this amazing meditation there. And then long hike across back to another stupa. So it's going on all this hiking around the Himalayas, zig-zagging, you know, from Bhutan, to Nepal, back to Tibet, and just going around to all these stupas of the Bodhisattvas, the feminine Bodhisattvas. And then he says, Master, I want to get rid of all my afflictions so that I can become enlightened." Then the master goes, okay, in that case now we're going to go to the cave of enlightenment. Then he goes, but master, what about my afflictions? You see, because I've got all these problems that get in my way. And the master says, no you don't. He goes, what do you mean? He goes, well, you know, so you used to be sick, but on the way to Kailas, you became strong. You became healthy. Didn't you notice?" And he goes, oh yeah, I did. He started eating the meat of power, which is probably called protein. And then he noticed that in a couple weeks, he was able to follow the Master at a fast pace, climbed to the height of this tall mountain, and that by the time he got down to the bottom, he was no longer ill and weak. So he didn't kind of realize it when it happened, but it happened. And then, so his illness went away, his weakness went away. And then the Master said, no slippers, and we could go all the way down to the Ganga. Many weeks they traveled with no slippers. And then his anger about having the special slippers went away. Because who needs special slippers when you can see that you don't need special slippers? So his anger went away. And so the pastor points it out and he goes, oh yeah, you're right. I kind of doped out that I didn't need that and why would I be angry about something I don't need? And then last, they went to all these stupas of the divine feminine, the bodhisattvas. And then in seeing these different dimensions of enlightened feminine energy that was eternal and blissful. Then his sorrow for his mother's passing went away. And then the Master says, See? And he goes,

0:19:24
Oh, yeah, okay.

0:19:25
Because he's like,

0:19:26
Master, I've got all these problems and all we're doing is walking around. You know, you're not solving my problems. We're just walking around. And then finally he recognizes that the things that he was doing with the Master were things that were addressing his suffering. And then when he saw that he was relieved and released of his suffering, now the Master says, So, this checking point, this place where we are able to see and check for what works and also see what doesn't work, this is where we have recognition. We take a moment to have recognition of what our practice has been and where the points in our practice have been powerful and have worked and done something. And then we start to see this as a launching pad that Here in America, last week, a great American activist and politician passed away. His name was John Lewis. And John Lewis was a great civil rights leader, so he's an African American. And he worked closely with Martin Luther King in planning some of the most powerful civil rights events in American history. He was also one of the founders and leaders of this thing they call SNCC, the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, coalition. And that was a huge movement for civil rights. And he also became a congressman. He was a congressman for 30 years. And in his work, he did many, many, many things to promote civil rights. So a great activist in America. So he actually started off from a very young age, very activated by going to church. Even when he was very young, as soon as he could start understanding language at church, he was like, there's something to this, right? His eyes were wide open when he was at church. And then when he was five years old, he started to, he lived on a farm, so he started to preach what he learned in church, he started to preach it to the chickens in the farm. And so he was really a spiritual being. And at a young age, he was teaching the chickens. And then he was really inspired and was really learning a lot about the Bible and Christianity. He gave his first sermon at the age of 15. Then he went to seminary and graduated as an ordained Baptist priest. So after becoming a priest, instead of starting a church, he was observing all of the inequities and injustices in the South, because he was in Nashville. And there was something that just came up. It was something that he was aware of. It was something that people were complaining of. It's something that he himself experienced. So in Nashville, at lunchtime, if you wanted to go get lunch, there was segregation, separation. There was where the whites can go and where the blacks can go. And so sometimes it was the whites would get served first, and then when they're all done, then the blacks can get served. So then the blacks and African-Americans had to wait, and maybe they're hungry, but they gotta wait. And then what's left over is what they get, kind of thing. So he organized, so John Lewis organized these things called sit-ins, and they would go over to these lunch counters, is what they called them, and they would go into the shop and they would just, a whole bunch of African Americans and some of the supporting white Americans, they would go in and they would just sit there. Just tons of them would just occupy space so it would be very difficult for someone to get served. So they did this again and again, hundreds of times and John Lewis even got arrested several times doing this. But eventually they won and eventually the government, the city government and the business people said, okay, we will allow blacks and whites to stand in the same line to get food. So he started that movement and it was successful. Then after that, he considered going and being a preacher in a church. But then he said, wait a minute, I I want to do more. So he and a group of people organized something they called Freedom Riders. And it was about six blacks and seven whites who decided to ride the bus together, a number of buses, from Washington, D.C. down to New Orleans. And once you got into the South, then that became a problem because whites and blacks weren't supposed to ride on the same buses or the blacks had to be in the back. But this group sat amongst each other and it just outraged people. And so it got on the news, local news, and then it got on national news. And once it was on national news, then what would happen is when they would get to some bus station in the South, then there was a whole bunch of angry white people. And the angry white people would come and beat them all up. And then that would happen. I think it happened several times. And then it was like, he got hurt. I mean, they use bats and all sorts of weapons and things. But they got beaten up, but they kept going. Then that became national news. Then it inspired all of these students. So then all these students would get on all the buses, blacks and whites together, and there were just too many of them to beat up. So they were much larger than the crowds of angry people who wanted to beat them up. And then all of a sudden, it became a thing where whites and blacks could travel on these buses together. So, after that, that was a big battle and a big success. Made national news, the president did things about it and all sorts of stuff. And then it got all these people activated. And then after that, he took a look and he said, wow, you know, these things that I'm doing, they have a positive effect." And he said, then I'm going to keep doing more. And he did more and more and more. And he, yeah, he became a congressman for 30 years. I mean, he worked within the system in a nonviolent way, always nonviolent, to create justice and fight for civil rights. So this is very important. When you're doing your spiritual practice, you also have to take account for your actions in life and the results of your actions. This is definitely a school of disciplined practice, but more than that it's a school of transformation observing Your spiritual practice. What are you doing? You know you're working on your practice good, what are you doing? What's happening as a result?

0:29:40
so with

0:29:42
John Lewis He was you know a Baptist priest He knew the Bible. He knew his his spiritual system, and he worked from that system, like his non-violent approach. He worked knowing all of the Bible and incorporating that in his way of dealing with difficulties. And

0:30:19
powerful positive results.

0:30:21
So when you look at your practice, look at one, yeah,

0:30:25
work on your discipline,

0:30:27
master your discipline. He went through seminary. He became an ordained priest, a Baptist priest. So he did his work. That's true. So do your work, get good at it. But at the same time, look at your actions, look at your results. So my beginning and introduction and intermediate students, they tend to do Bodhicitta practice two or three times a day. And they might beat themselves up about it. They'll be like, oh, I'm only doing, I only remember bodhicitta a couple times a day. Oh, man, I'm doing so bad. So, yeah, we like to beat ourselves up about what we aren't doing perfectly. But don't beat yourself up. People are like, how can I face my problems when my problems are my face? We're always finding problems to be upset about, right? So don't be so upset. I think that practicing bodhicitta two to three times a day, can be very strong practice. If you're looking for those turning points or those places of power in your day, like you're just sitting there, you know, doing what you do, and then someone comes over and yells at you, that's time of power to practice. Or during the day, everything's going well, and you see someone who's having a tough time, and then you practice. And that could be a very powerful time. There could be someone who is sitting there practicing Bodhicitta a thousand times a day, and yet they have very little effect, because it's not deep practice. It might be continuous mindfulness, they might have an ability to do that. That's good. That's a strength. But you also have to have deep, effective practice. So this is what we look to. Not just the precision of practice for the sake of practice, but it results, the depth in our practice. Like if you're a chef, you've got perfect knifing skills, I don't know, cutting skills. You can dice an onion, you can julienne a carrot. You know how to cook a pig's ear or whatever. You know all these things about cooking. And then you serve your food to somebody and they go, ugh, yuck. So you might have all these cooking skills, but is your food good? And actually, I got to say, so I took some students to San Sebastian, Spain. And San Sebastian in Spain is known as the food place. So they have many Michelin star restaurants there and On a special evening we went out to a three Michelin star restaurant and Appetizers were okay Can't argue with them. There's nothing wrong but then that then the entrees came that's the plates the main course. And this was a famous chef's restaurant, famous. His name was Juan Azcon or something like that. Juan Azcon, and his restaurant was called Azcon's Plates. And so it was all fancy and all wonderful and everything. Beautiful view, although it was nighttime so we couldn't see it. And we were having the entree. And it was terrible. It just was terrible. So I got this thing called a partridge. It was horrible. It was served cold and it was like pickled. I couldn't eat it. I was like, this is terrible. And then one of my students got sole. You know, a Dover sole. Easiest thing to cook if you cook it. You know, at sushi restaurants, there's certain fish that might be plentiful in the sea, but they don't have it on the sushi menu because it tastes horrible raw. You know, if you eat raw sole, it's just chewy, right? You never see sole, swordfish, on a sushi menu. So this was a, I guess you would call it, a very undercooked sole. So my student was trying to eat it, and it didn't go over very well. And then another student got a veal, and the veal was just hard and chewy. And then the other student got, I think it was like some creamy chicken thing, and she could eat that. She said it was very creamy, very rich, very delicious. And I was like, oh good, okay. So one person got to eat something, but then it was so rich that she got totally sick and had to vomit. And I was like, there goes 400 Euros. It was funny. So we didn't have a good experience there. Now, those were top notch chefs. They could do everything in a kitchen. But the result, even though they were really expert, the result, their food was really bad. So yeah, we've experienced this several times. Sometimes with my students, we go, yay, we're going to a great place. And I'm sorry, what's so good about this place? So the next day we are driving out of San Sebastian and we stopped off for lunch at this little restaurant in a little village on the way to wherever we were going. I think back to Madrid. And this little restaurant, we walk in and there's only a few people sitting in there. And it was like a mom and pop restaurant. So this older man comes in and he seats us. He's the server. And then his wife's in the kitchen making the food. And then the food that we had there was delicious. It was amazing. I mean, it's like so yummy and it was a lot more simple

0:38:05
So, you know

0:38:07
She had the the skills maybe not the amazing skills and knowledge that those three Michelin star chefs had but she had the right skills to get the right result and And we were laughing about how expensive the famous restaurant was, how the food was so bad, and how at this simple little restaurant there was much better food. So results, right? Not just being, you know, fancy. Same works in martial arts, right? So there could be someone where you watch them do forms, and they're amazing, doing amazing katas, you know? They might, you know, all sorts of weapons, all sorts of jumping, spinning kicks, and all sorts of good, they look amazing. But then you see them in a fight, you see them fight someone, and none of that stuff works. You see someone with a simple kiakizuki take them out. Boom! So I've seen it a lot. I've seen that a lot. Good fancy forms, but you can't actually use it. The result is not strong. So it's very important to recognize not just practice, practice is important, discipline is important, but the kind of practice that achieves strong results. A time in your practice of bodhicitta. A time where you faced some kind of hardship and were successful in your reflections on bodhicitta and compassion. It could be a time where you had an internal difficulty, sadness, hardship, frustration, confusion. And then you did bodhicitta, bodhicitta compassion for yourself, or maybe compassion for whatever you're dealing with. And that it created some resolution within you, where it brought you out of the difficult feelings or the confusion or the hardship. So that, or maybe it's a situation with another person where there's a difficulty and you were able to do Bodhicitta, have compassion, and it changed the situation. Or maybe it was dealing with adverse conditions and a way of transforming them into the pathway of awakening. So I'd like you to reflect on that, on a time where Bodhicitta worked for you. And actually, this is going to be your homework assignment. Another homework assignment. There's not many but But at this time where you're you're at this checkpoint reflecting on your practice. It's very important

0:41:48
to

0:41:49
Write down your experience of when bodhisattva worked for you So So, this is where you will reflect on the time, maybe you have a time now that comes to mind, but after this, after the satsang, sit and reflect, like really have a recognition of what the time was, where this worked, and then write it down. care if it's a paragraph or two, or a page or two, but it should be as detailed as possible in your recognition of what the suffering is, and what your considerations of bodhicitta are, and what the result is. Okay, look, I did it, Europeans die. So this is an important assignment. Please do the assignment and send it to me at sambara at awakenedmind.org and I will read your assignments like I did last time. over 500 pages of compassion assignments. And it really shows me, this is a good thing for me too, to look at where you guys are at, what you guys can process from these teachings. So, this is my reflection on your reflection. Good, good. So please do that, you know, within a couple of weeks. And if in reflecting you can't find anything, then look in your life, spend a few days looking in your life, and then practice Bodhicitta. Practice it for real. So this is a time where you can have a recognition of your mind, how clear it is, how well you're able to process these teachings and bring them into your life for positive results. So when you can recognize Recognize that and you say wow you know it's I don't know I Don't know maybe it's not so clear to me right well Then it's a time where you say now it's time to bring all of my focus and really do this This is this is a period of finding a greater truth So if you if you can't find a place where this has been working for you and look at your life and practice and make it work. This is the time to start to be real. Yes. Now Bodhisitta is an instrument that produces effects of clarity, truth, something that uplifts spirit, brings you to liberation. So it's an instrument that we use in the enlightenment process. So Bodhicitta is something that really cleans your mind, something that brings your mind to a greater clarity. This is something that we develop, something that we work on. And it's very, very, very important because if you don't do bodhicitta, we have this analogy, if you don't tend to your garden, weeds grow up just on their own, and then your garden will be filled with weeds. So bodhicitta is kind of like tending to the garden of the mind, pulling the weeds, making sure that your mind is clean, immaculate, and beautiful. And so it's kind of like a vacuum cleaner, right? Bodhisitta is like something that you use to clean things up, clean up in your mind. So a vacuum cleaner, you go around, there's some dirt on the carpet, you use a vacuum cleaner, dirt is gone, right? There's dust in the corner, you go over, clean it up, and then it's gone. So ODCH is an instrument like a vacuum cleaner in the Dharma Villa. Someone said it was just going around collecting dust. So then we went out and we bought a brand new, you know, like fancy high-cost vacuum cleaner. We thought it was going to solve all our problems, but in the end, it just really sucked.

0:47:43
So,

0:47:43
that was my vacuum joke.

0:47:45
So, in this time of the checkpoint, we use Podicita really to make our lives better and the lives of others. Bodhicitta is this powerful practice of Dharma and there's nothing bad about Bodhicitta. Some people think, oh my gosh, I can't like psychically focus on other people's problems. I already have my own. But when you do that, you're in ego and self-defense. Enlightenment is opening. It is. It's opening to life and it's opening to other people. And this is a very powerful and safe way to do it. Arjuna was talking with Krishna right before the battle of Kurukshetra in the Mahaparata, the Bhagavad Gita. And Krishna is talking about, you know, here's what you do to do the Dharma. Here's what you do to do the Dharma. And to do the Dharma you have to be vulnerable. And Arjuna said, this sounds really cool and powerful and bright, but if I do it, I might get messed up, man. Right? Like, you know, if I try and I fail, what's going to happen to me?" And Krishna says, every effort that you make towards the Dharma lifts you up. You never fall. The spirit is always elevated. So this is very beautiful, very powerful. And we learn skills, skills to deal with different aspects of life, different aspects of mind, and how to relieve suffering and find liberation. So, you know, we have ultimate bodhicitta, very, very, very profound practice. And then we have tonglen, taking and sending, very powerful practice, a very useful skill to be mindful of. Then we learned how to transform adverse conditions into the pathway of awakening. Extremely important. And then we learned how to be strong in bodhichitta through our whole life and our death. Amazing teachings. So we have all of these powerful skills of dharma and now the checkpoint. All these powerful skills of Dharma for different situations in our life. So it's like having the right cleaning products, or the right thing you've got to clean when you're cleaning your mind. So you got your vacuum cleaner for the dirt. Oh, there's some dirt on the ground. Get that?

0:51:13
Huh.

0:51:14
Done.

0:51:15
Right?

0:51:16
You get that, done, right? It's very good. And then let's say you get stains in your clothes, right, and then you get the laundry detergent. Right, a vacuum cleaner might not work so good. So you got the right cleaning product for the right thing. Or maybe you spill something, right? Vacuum, not good. Spill some water. And then the laundry detergent, no, not the right thing. You need a paper towel. And a paper towel cleans it up. In America, we've got this famous brand, it's called Brawny. And it's like, Brawny, the quicker picker-upper. See, I know their tagline. I grew up watching TV. And in the TV commercials, they would always have this demonstration of some blue liquid on the table. And Bronnie would, one swipe, clean it all up. The competitor, one swipe, and they only get like 30% and it's still there. So they're like, Ronnie, it's the best. So they would have that, they would always have that on TV, the comparisons. You can clean this stain better with this. You can wipe up things better with that. They didn't really show that with toilet paper, but. But, you know, they say other things with toilet paper.

0:52:55
It's so soft.

0:52:59
So when we have the right tools of mindfulness, of the dharma of compassion, then these are the right tools at the right time for the right problem. So it's important. That's why you've got to have your brawny at the right time. What do you call a sleeping paper towel? A napkin. I know. So when you come to this checkpoint, this time of reflection, it's a time to see past bad jokes. The mind plays, the ego plays bad jokes on you. It's called your attachments, your concepts, you know, your limited outlook. But at the checkpoint, at this time, when we're looking to see where there's truth in our practice, we come to a seeing of the clear mind. We come to a seeing where there is potential for proficiency, for greater dharmic results. So when we can see our mind in a clear way, where the effects of ego-clinging are not there, in a spiritual awareness, we're able to see that yes, there's so many possibilities for enlightenment. for using bodhicitta effectively to have strong, powerful results. So this is the time for that scene. And so we will do a transmission, transmission teaching of seeing. Seeing your seeing your clear mind, seeing the potential for enlightened results from your practice of dharma and bodhicitta. So if you would, please sit up nice and straight and bring your focus to me. It's going to be an open-eye meditation. And we're going to sit for one song, Soft focus on the third eye. Okay, let's begin.

0:55:39
so Very nice. Good. Okay, so we're going to take a 10 minute break and we will come back and we will finish up

0:59:44
with one last consideration of the fifth point in our mind training, in the lojong, which with one last consideration of the fifth point in our mind training, in the lojong, which is the extent of proficiency in mind training.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
