0:00:00
Welcome, everybody. My name is Chi. I'm a Buddhist monk and student of Sambara, and I'm also part of the Music Yoga Team. I'm very happy to be introducing the final remnants of the India album that we've been working on for the past just about one year. The album actually went live, so if you search for it right after this call, you'll see it on Spotify, iTunes, all the other platforms. So this is a very fortuitous time to be sitting together and experiencing music together. So for those of you who are new, you picked a hell of a time to come, welcome. And I can explain a little bit about what music yoga is, and then we'll get into the actual songs. So there's many practices that we do and they're practices of refinement. And like Samvara mentioned a number of times, you know, you gotta do something, right? There's ways in which we have to engage our attention and do practices that help us refine our mind. And music yoga is one of these beautiful practices. So the album that we're gonna be listening to and the songs are all inspired by different in places and experiences that we had on a trip to India last year. So India is a wonderful place and it's a lot like that warrior element that Sambara was talking about because it can be very difficult. You have to fly halfway around the world to get there. There's all sorts of travel. It's hot. It's just a very fast-paced, very intense energy and it would be totally possible to go to India and just have a miserable travel experience the whole time. Or you can go to India, you work with the energies, you learn how to deal with them, and you can have a beautiful enlightening experience. And these songs are little snapshots, little snippets into some of those beautiful enlightenment experiences. And there's a process where we go to India, we go to this place, we sit with a great saint, we have a very beautiful meditative experience. There's a process of transference where you can take that experience and put it into something, like a song. And there's a process of doing that, it's very similar like cutting the tomatoes. If you can cut out the parts of, you know, your experience and the hard travel and all these things, you're left with a very pure representation of that enlightened experience. And just by sitting and listening and meditating that song together, we all experience what it's like going into India and having this experience. So as we step through these little snippets, these little vignettes, I'm going to be introducing the place, showing you some pictures of the place so you can make a little bit of a first attention connection to it, tell you about the song, and then we'll meditate to each song. All right. So I will share my screen and my sound. And you should be seeing Ganga River flow. So the Ganga River flow and we're starting our journey today with a meditation on the heart. So this section of India is from a part of northern India, a town called Rishikesh, so it's one of the hubs that we go to on our India pilgrimages. And those of you who've never been there, it's very similar to Yosemite. It has a very cool valley, lots of greenery, very just pleasant place to be, and you can see from some of the pictures, it's very Yosemite-like. this sacred ancient river that just cuts right through the middle of this valley and through the city of Rishikesh. So this song, The Ganga River Flow, is capturing two elements of just the experience of sitting by the river and think sun's out, it's a beautiful sparkling day, and there's parts of the Ganga that have a very fast, quick energy. There's whitewater rafting is really popular around there, so you'll just be sitting by the Ganga and this whitewater raft of screaming people having a good time will come by. So the first part of the song is meant to capture some of that very quick energy of sitting by the Ganga. And that's a little bit more towards the left here. This is outside a place called Arandati Cave. Very quick, fast-paced Ganga energy. And then on the right-hand side, this is actually the Ganga as it goes to Rishikesh. So as it goes to the city, it slows down and becomes this very pleasant, serene quality. And on the bottom right here is this place we would go to every morning and have our morning meditation. So the water is very slow there, and there's a different pace. So the Ganga has all these different facets, and in the song, we're looking to bring that all together. So we will focus on the heart. This will be a closed eye meditation. And let's focus on the Ganga River flow.

0:04:49
Ganga River Flow. the the the the the the the the the the the the Thank you. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so Very nice. Our next song on our journey is a song about Shiva Shakti. So, Shiva Shakti, the woman pictured here, she is a living saint, so you can go and visit her. And for those of you who were in our previous sections, you might notice something familiar behind her in this picture. She's sitting behind the mountain Arunachala. So, this is in Tirumalamalai, South India, one of the other central hubs of our India

0:07:32
trips. And Arunachala is the sacred mountain and it's said to be the embodiment of Shiva. And Shiva Shakti is the woman who lives locally in town, right near Arunachala. And you can see actually her ashram over here on the right. You can go in and see her. So every morning she does a darshan where she comes in, sits, meditates with whoever shows up, and it's a very unique experience. So, Siva Shakti, she's a very small, very tiny petite. As Simbhara was sharing stories about Tara, Siva Shakti comes to mind, because she's this very tiny, very sweet-looking fabulous, fabulous, beautiful intensity and wonderfulness to her. So, um, she's the kind of person where

0:09:41
you

0:09:42
feel that something powerful is about to happen before she even enters the room, because there's just there's a shift in the air. And she very slowly just walks into her little room from the door and sits in this chair right in the middle of the room. And so you see her meditating in the chair. And she just has silent darshan. So she doesn't talk. She doesn't give any sort of speech. She just sits and meditates. And it's this very beautiful, very pristine white light energy. And then what she does is she stands up and opens her eyes and very slowly scans the entire room and looks every single person in the eye. And as she's doing this, she makes this gesture. It looks like a little bit like she's slowly reeling in a fishing line, but she's just making this gesture as she makes eye contact. And there's this moment, and I was reminded with Tara locking eyes, where she will lock eyes with you and everything stops. You just kind of, you can't really take a breath. You're just sort of caught in this current of her gaze. And it's one of those things where it looks like and feels like someone is just penetrating the very core of your soul. And then she looks away and there's this whoosh and she goes on to the next person. So it's a very powerful experience and as sweet and divine and feminine and beautiful as her energy is, there's this very, very powerful element to it. So for this song, it was very important to us that we wanted to really translate both of those aspects. And it was very important also to have a woman's touch to bring this powerful divine feminine energy to the song. So I sent this song to Andrea, who is one of our Hungarian music yogis, who is a wonderful, wonderful piano player. And she sent back this just beautiful, absolute, wonderful piano piece that really just perfectly captured this divine feminine energy. And then Tara, who is on our music yoga team, Tara, the person Tara, in our sangha, on our music yoga team, really helped accentuate and bring out the Shiva and Shakti, the really powerful dimensions. So what you'll hear in the songs are really those two aspects working very beautifully together, and there's a part where the intensity picks up, and that's the moment that Shiva Shakti locks eyes with you. This is another song in the heart, so meditate with the closed eyes, focus on the heart, and we will enjoy Shiva Shakti.

0:12:31
you the the the So, so the the the the so Very nice. For our next song on our journey, this is a song about a gentleman pictured in the middle named Tapasuji. And you'll see that this is book cover right there is a biography that's written about him. The saint who lived for 185 years.

0:14:34
So Tapasuji, and this is an experience about Tapasuji's ashram, which are the pictures around it, which is this very, very serene forest paradise type place. But Tabasuji, he was well known for a type of practice called tapas. And tapas means heat. And it's the heat that's kind of you can say it's like the intensity of the practice generates this heat. So a yogi who practices tapas might do something like hold their arm above their head for 15 years. And anyone who knows who's tried to hold their arm above their head for more than about 30 seconds starts to get a little uncomfortable, muscles start shaking. And a yogi practicing tapas will define their whole practice by doing something really intense like that. So thankfully we don't practice that kind of yoga, but there is something about the intensity of that practice and that warrior spirit you could say that we learn from when we study or interact with yogis that practice this type of thing that we can bring in our meditation practice. You know I'm a little sleepy maybe I shouldn't meditate. No, this guy can hold his arm above his head for 15 years. I can probably muster up the strength to meditate. So Tapasuji was famous for practicing tapas. And when they say the saint who lived to be 185 years, he was very well known for a practice, an Ayurvedic practice, where at two different points in his life, he took a retreat and ate this tonic herb paste that they call kaya culpa, just said to be a rejuvenating are the Vedic food. And there's a specific practice that goes along with it, that's meant to prolong one's life. He entered when he was about 100 years old. And when he came out of retreat, he had the appearance of being physically like 50 years old. And then he lived and got old again, did this kind of couple practice again rejuvenated himself. And when you add all that up 185 years is what to posture is live for. And when he did this practice, he went to this ashram that we went to, because in order for it to work, you need to seal yourself in a windowless room for six months. So twice, Tabasuji went to this room for six months and just stayed in this room with no windows, no door, no one going in and out, just practicing his practice. So needless to say, this is a very powerful place. And it's in this very beautiful, still serene energy. And when we meditated, so in the top right, this is actually the room that he sat in. When we meditated in there, that power is still very accessible. And you feel that. So that tapas energy is very permeating, in addition to it just being in this beautiful meditative, silent part of India. So the song, also Andrea from the Hungarian Sangha had a big part in playing this, and she collaborated with a U.S. music yogi named James a lot on the song. And there was actually a very beautiful process that was just a nice yogic success story, because Andrea didn't have a way of recording her piano, so she would just send iTunes clips of, you know, from her phone playing piano, and we needed to somehow get that in the song. So what James would do is he would get this iPhone voice memo of this beautiful piano senyata, and he would transcribe all the notes in his music software, and then export that so that we could put it in the song and get Andrea's performance on there. So there's this beautiful Sangha Unity international workflow that this song took to put together that's very beautiful. And then at the end, Mudra, who Sambhar mentioned earlier, one of his contemporaries, really just came in and took some structure to the song and made it very beautiful and pristine. So, last thing I'll say about this song, there's some bird sounds that you'll hear in the beginning. We talked a little bit about the birds in previous sections. Birds are very prevalent in India. And there's this one bird in particular and you'll hear it kind of sounds like a little homing beacon. It just goes, boop, boop, boop, boop. I don't know what kind of bird it is, but you hear it all over India. And it became a beautiful analogy for what we're doing with the music yoga. Because, you know, we're sitting here, we're meditating, we're having all these thoughts and the music is a way of, oh, no, don't get caught up in the thoughts. You follow this current back into that meditative frequency. And this bird served the same purpose, because anywhere in India, you could be tons of traffic. There's people honking their horn, wherever it is. But you could just hear this bird. And if you'd follow that bird's frequency, you'd always end up in a very still place. So this bird is actually recorded at the Tabasu Judaism. And he became almost a symbol of the trip in a lot of ways. So we'll again focus on the heart, closed eye meditation for Tapasvaji.

0:21:23
So, let's go. so the the the the so So you Wonderful. All right, so for our next three stops, we'll move from the heart to the third eye. These are the last three songs that appear on the album. And they also represent three wonderful places in India. This next song is inspired by a place called the Gorakshinath Cave. And this whole song and experience is just a lesson of you got to know the right places. So, the Gorakshinath Cave is probably the most inaccessible place we went to in India.

0:25:20
So, how you get to this place is you go to a town called Haridwar, which is one of the most densely populated chaotic places we went to in our entire trip. And you walk through the town for about two miles, just weaving through people in and out. It's just commotion, people, everything. And then after about two miles, you take a left into an unmarked courtyard. No signs, no identifying markings. You just take a left in this courtyard. And then you're in this courtyard, and you walk up to the second floor of the courtyard and enter this completely unmarked room, which is the Garak Shnath Ashram. There's only two people in there when we went. There's one person who is the attendant of the ashram. And you walk down into this piece in the bottom left, which is an actual cave which is somehow in the second story of a building. But it's an actual cave that they built a temple around years and years later where grok shnuff live. So this guy in the top right here. and he was a famous yogi who was alive in maybe the 13th century. He's said to be the founder of Hatha yoga. And he has a whole spiritual succession and lineage that follows his teachings called the knots. And he was the first one. And the energy of this cave, many of you have meditated to the open eye yantra meditation. You'll see here some yantras in the picture. This place has a very, very, very strong yantra, mathematic, geo, just the shapes and tessellation effect, the same thing you experience in yantra. That's the kind of overarching energy of this place. And when you go down in this cave, you walk down, this little cave on the left, there's a light switch at the intro, and the guy will flip it off. So you're just sitting in the dark in this cave and pretty much immediately it starts to feel like you're flying through space on a loincloth. So it's this energy, you know, it's been described as cosmic consciousness, which didn't really mean as much to me before but it just immediately felt like being propelled through space, through yantra, into this very blissful, very quick, very cosmic type of feeling. So this song is the representation of that journey and the experience of cosmic consciousness in a very hard-to-find place. So we'll meditate in the third eye. This is Sikharakshinath Cave.

0:28:55
So, the the the the the So, Thank you.. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Very nice. For our next adventure, we go to the Shiva Parvati Temple. This one is a very special one, especially today. So, the Shiva Parvati Temple is a temple in North India.

0:33:22
This is somewhere you can drive to from Rishikesh where we started the Ganga River, but way up in the hills. So you go up, up, up, up, up, up through all this elevation and you arrive at this temple, which has some number of spiritually significant number of steps leading up to it, but probably a couple hundred, maybe even a couple thousand. So you get to this temple, you walk up this huge, huge, huge, huge, huge line of stairs and the temple is all the way at the top. And on the left is what the view looks like during the day. On the right is what the view looks like during sunset. Talked a little bit about Indian sunsets before exceptional. So, the energy here and you can actually see it a little bit in this picture, but way off in the horizon, past all the mountain peaks. There's these little kind of peaks that look a little bit like clouds. And what they explained to us is that it was actually the crests of the Himalayas. Just way off in the distance you could just see the top of a couple of the snow-capped peaks. So like pretty far up in India getting close to the Himalayas and just starting to kind of feel that energy of the Himalayas opening up. That's where this temple is located. So, very beautiful energy, very beautiful place. And this place, it's said that when Shiva was traveling around India, he left a piece of his soul in 37 different places, including this temple. So, this temple in particular, it had a very strong Shiva energy, which is the Indian energy that represents destruction, which fortuitous for the solstice, and also parvati, which is the female energy of death. So it had a very strong yin-yang energy to it also because there was also a very strong parvati energy in this temple. So we did an exercise because the other special thing about this temple is that if you made a wish to parvati at this temple, the wish would be fulfilled. And this is a trip we were on last March, right around the time of the equinox. And, interestingly enough, the wish that I and many other people on the trip made had to do with our yoga projects. And at the time, App Buddy was in a very difficult position because we had gone through at the end of the previous year, like a near miss acquisition. Like we were right there at the finish line, and it fell through. And then the quarter after that, there was a big sale that was going to make our whole quarter and put us back in a great position, and that sale fell through. So we had took two pretty hard knocks. And, you know, the teachings, along with the warrior teachings is always, you know, you get up off the mat and you go and do your dharma, and you do it selflessly and impeccably like a warrior. So we've been practicing that for a long time. And the wish at this temple was, that I made and many others, was a wish for App Buddy and a wish for yogic success. And coincidentally, one year ago today, that wish came true. And it unlocked many things for this sangha that have opened up amazing doors and dimensions. So encapsulated in this song is a very strong element of yogic success and also a very strong element of mudra. So mudra helped with this song a lot. Mudra was one of Sambara's contemporaries and is the person who really brought music yoga to our sangha, contributed violin to this song and in particular there's a point about two-thirds away from in the song where the drums are going, the music swells, everything comes in and Mudra comes in with his violin and really opens the dimension of this place and this experience. So you can't miss it, but it's a very beautiful part of the song, and let's enjoy it together. So we'll focus on the third eye and enjoy the Shiva Parvati Temple.

0:38:19
So, let's get started. so the the the the the the the so So, you For our sixth and final song of the journey, we end the album with a song about Ramana Maharshi. Maharshi. So many of you might be familiar with Ramana Maharshi. He's a pretty well-known figure in spirituality. He was alive in the early, late 1800s, early 1900s, and he was the patron saint of Arunachala. So you'll see behind him in this depiction, there's not only Arunachala, the

0:40:33
mountain, so back in South India, Tirumalala. You also see the Arunachala Temple, which Jing spoke about in the last meeting, and Ramana Maharshi. So it's impossible to go in South India and not just see Ramana Maharshi everywhere. There's paintings of him, there's pictures, at the cafes they'll have a Ramana Maharshi, and the closer you get to Arunachala, you're just consumed in this encompassing Ramana Maharshi energy. It's great. And this song is about an experience. For many years of his life, he lived on Arunachala in a cave. So he sat in a cave, I think for two years, when he was 16, and just meditated in this cave for two years. And you can go to this idea of cosmic consciousness, you know, Ramana Maharshi, obviously a very simple fellow. He's wearing a little cloth and that's about it. So, you wouldn't really think of him in cosmic consciousness, maybe in the same, in the same breath, because he just appears on the surface as a very simple fellow. But you go to his cave and you sit down and close your eyes and it's like being in 2001 A Space Odyssey. Like suddenly the universe opens up and you're met with this very, very deep feeling of limitlessness that's just has this tremendously expansive quality and is really nice. And then you walk out and look at the picture of him and he's kind of giving you the eyes on the top left like,

0:45:21
yep, told you.

0:45:23
So I like that about him. He was also famous for not really speaking a lot. So his way of getting people out of their concepts of duality and ignorance was to mostly not really say anything at all. So he would go sit around, he would go into his cosmic consciousness and there's an energy that goes alongside that, that just by being around that and connecting to it, people would feel and they would have realizations. And he would talk sometimes, sometimes he had a little chalkboard, he would write one or two words on. But we talk about a lot, the words don't matter so much. He was kind of the embodiment of that. And just very, very beautiful, powerful dimensions. So how do you write a song and put music to someone who is known for not talking? Right? In our case, we bring in the big guns. So the big guns for us are Mudra and Bodhi. So we talked about Mudra a little bit. He's really the, we're very fortunate to get him to work with our sangha for the last 10 years to bring us the dimensions and the tonal and the teachings of music yoga. And he spent a lot of time on this song, really helping to fine tune the structure and the pieces to make just a very beautiful foundation. And then we were also very fortunate to work with Bodhi. And for those of you who were on the first meeting, Bodhi is one of the really purveyors of our kind of music yoga. So he was in Zazen, the original music yoga group, and got the direct teachings of music yoga. And has been the embodiment and manifestation of that for the last 30, 40 years. Um, he's a guitar player, very beautiful guitar. Um, the music we've been listening to today, up until now, um, he's contributed on, and he has this very distinctive, beautiful, elevating quality to his performance. And one of the not so secret tricks in music yoga is that when someone sits to meditate, you know, you start in whatever state of mind you're in, but the music is really meant to be a vehicle to elevate and take your consciousness to a different place. So when you're done with the meditation, you're not in the same place you started, you're in a higher, bigger breadth of awareness. And one of the ways that the music yoga will do that, in addition to how it's constructed, is you'll hear an elevating quality in a lot of the melodies. And especially when you hear Bodhi's guitar playing on any of his songs, but he does it beautifully here as well, you follow that guitar and it takes your consciousness right up with it. So he has that Siddha power, that awareness of doing that. And with the very strong foundation that Mudra helped put in place, Bodhi was able to come in on top of that and just really crown this song with all of his awareness of music yoga. So this song coming together, it has a very, very strong sangha unity element, because again, it's multiple generations of music yogis working together to create this vehicle for meditation. And there's also a very special power, I think, when Mudra and Bodhi collaborate. Some of you have been fortunate enough to see a concert where Mudra and Bodhi play together, and there is a very distinct, strong power that opens up when that happens. And another yoga success story is the last concert they played together, pre-quarantine, which is in February, this concert some of us were at in San Diego, Mujer and Bodhi performed and we meditated to a group of a couple hundred people. Very strong, very powerful, very beautiful feeling in the room. In the middle of that concert, the acquisition of our second sangha company was finalized. So what I'm trying to say is there's a strong power of these two coming together and you hear that power in the song as well. So we'll end our meditation today to focus on the third eye, the song about Ramana Maharshi.

0:49:49
so so so so you Beautiful. It's an honor and a privilege meditating with everyone today and sharing the indie album with you. I'll send a link out to the sangha, but it's available everywhere now.

0:50:47
So we'll put it up on the wiki, but it's also in any platform that you get music on. So thank you everyone that was involved in creating the music and the album and I'll send it back to Sambara to close us out. All right, so that was very beautiful. Thank you, Chi. That music was wonderful. So we're gonna take a break for 10 minutes, then we'll come back and then I'll also share with you some new spiritual names for students. you some new spiritual names for students.

0:55:01
Okay, so 10 minute break, we'll come back and we'll wind up.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
