0:00:00
Good evening, good morning. We're going to begin with meditation. Sit up nice and straight. Close your eyes. We're going to sit for one song with a focus on the navel chakra.

0:00:20
Let's begin.

0:00:21
You so So So, so so so you All right, thank you for joining me this evening or this morning.

0:01:27
This is a special teaching and it's a teaching about the bardas, about the experiences and stages of attention after death. And this is because of So'ong's death and the stages of the fourth point of mind training in Bodhicitta. So, we've come to a place that is called the gateway, or the doorway to knowledge. And this is a place that we're able to come to after facing, or turning, away from being blown by karma. So the turning point is where you face life and face difficulty and even wrathful energy instead of being pushed by it, instead of fleeing in the face of difficulty. So then you come to the door, the gate. And now at this time, there's another wrathful feminine goddess of death. So as I've been telling you, since the solstice there's been a procession of many, many, many dimensions of wrathful feminine energy. a bardo goddess, a goddess of death. And she has a red lion head and holds a very great heavy chain. And this is a chain, it's a weapon and it's also a chain of attachment to karma, to suffering. But in facing this goddess of death, after having gone across the turning point, you can go through the doorway, through the gateway, of knowledge. So this is a powerful opportunity. And there's a teaching for this. And the teaching is, that which you're adverse to is also Dharma. And in the Bardo, be neither attractive or repulsed. This is the teaching. Aversion is Dharma, desire is Dharma, be neither attractive or false. So we'll start with aversion. So very often, we see something we don't like. And we say, ah, I don't like that, so I'm going to go away from it. It leaves that alone. That's something that makes me feel sad, fear, anger, something that causes suffering to me, bothers me, and so I don't like it. So that which you don't like is also Dharma. and the awareness that one must have in order to pass through this gate. So you know you have to be aware of the things that make you sad, the things that make you upset, the things that you don't want any part of. You have to see that there's a Dharma involved. So one of my students who's a black belt, he recently put on quite a bit of weight and he was feeling really bad about it, eating too much and not feeling so well and eating a lot, put on a lot of weight. Then he's like, I feel bad about this now. That's something that you have to see the Dharma in it. What's the Dharma in it? Well, another black belt looked at him and said, whoa, hadn't seen him in a while. And he said, wow, you put on some weight. Are you learning sumo wrestling? And then he got really upset by that. How could he say that to me? So he comes to me and complains. And I said, come on, lighten up. So we all have different things that we get mad about, we get upset about this and that, but also, you know, this is the time to be very careful about your weight. If you eat too much, you can get really depressed. So this is something in America we're still in, you know, supposed to be, you know, kind of social distancing and in lockdown, if we're smart. So you gotta be careful about these things. You know, I heard on the radio, on NPR, that humans, they're eating bananas like crazy. And humans eat more bananas than monkeys. That's all that monkeys eat, but humans eat more bananas than monkeys. And I believe that because I can't remember the last time I ate a monkey. So this is a time to be careful of the things that could make you sad. When you face a version, something that you don't like, like you put on too much weight, then there's dharma in having a recognition of that. Then there's dharma in something that's healthier, like a banana. So it's very important to really see the things that create aversion and see where there's dharma involved. Now very often I have students who come over to me with things that they're upset about. They're mad about this, sad about that. And when they want resolution, they want to find out how to solve a problem with a person or something like this, I always observe what is truth and what is judgment, opinion, reaction, emotion. And it directs people away from these obsturations of attention to see the truth. And then when you have a clear seeing of the truth, then to figure out. So there was a Buddhist ashram in China or somewhere, and this one monk got mad at this other monk, and he was all upset for some reason, and he decided he had to go tell the master. So the master was, you know, in the little temple, there's some stairs, a lot of stairs, he had to go up the stairs. So he runs up the stairs, goes to the master, and says, master, you have to solve my problem. This monk did this bad thing to me, and he's wrong. And the master was like, well, I don't know if you're seeing things so clearly. And he's like, yeah, I'm telling you, this is what happened. And the master said, you know, this might be your view, you might not be understanding the truth of the situation in a clear way. And he's like, I totally understand it in a clear way. And then the Master says, well, so you got upset, and then you ran up here, and then you come see me and you say something. And I don't know. He's like, tell me step by step what happened after the other monk yelled at you. And he said, well, I flew out of the dormitory, library, wherever you were, and then I ran up all these stairs, and I just come to you." And he goes, all right, so, he said, you flew out of the library, how was that? I just left, I just ran out. And he goes, and then I ran up all these stairs. And he goes, okay, so how many stairs were there? And he's like, and this is a bunch of stairs that he's gone up many, many, many, many, many times. And he's like, it's the stairs on the way up to the temple. And he's like, yeah, okay, so how many stairs were there? Like, let's get down to clear facts and understanding what's real. He's like, it was like 1,000 stairs. He's like, it's not 1,000 stairs. He's like, how many stairs? And then the monk didn't know. And then he said, I want you to be as clear about all of the physical facts as possible. And when you say there's a thousand stairs, and really there's only a hundred and eight, you mean there's a lot of stairs to you, and that's your opinion. But you're not clear about what the facts are. So when you're facing something that makes you upset, truth in a higher regard is to know clearly the physical truth of reality. If he said this, I said that. But then I got mad, and then I thought all these thoughts, and then I couldn't. And then you don't even perceive life anymore in a clear way. So this is where it's very important to be very, very clear about what is truth, what is reality, and what is thought, idea, feeling, because these obscure reality, and that's what causes one to be upset. When you get down to the clear facts of reality, sometimes there's nothing to be upset about something, when something's wrong, when you're confused, when there's a fear, when there's enmity, when there's something off, that's where you have to look deeper. You have to understand more. If you can unveil the truth, then that which creates trouble, that which is a problem, goes away. You have to investigate it. You have to investigate the situation. And then when you investigate a problem, then you reveal truth. And when you reveal truth, then that's the Dharma. There's a cute old Arthur Cannon Doyle story, Sherlock Holmes. So Sherlock Holmes was trying to solve some case. Someone was murdered and some famous painter, she painted this really weird, demented-looking clown, I think it was, with really thick paint, painted this weird-looking clown. And when Sherlock and Watson were looking at it, they looked at the back, and she wrote something on the back. And she said, when the light is at ten to midnight, the murderer is in sight. So that was the little clue. So they first tried going out under the moonlight at ten to midnight, and they were like holding it against the moon, didn't see anything. And then they were inside and talking about it, and then Sherlock And Sherlock goes, aha, I know. And he takes his lantern and he holds it to the top just a little bit over, as if it was a clock. It would be 10 to midnight. And the light cast down over the clown and over the clown, it was made with real thick shadow or real thick paint so there's shadows that fell across this clown picture and then you could see that it was obviously the butler Jenkins so when you looked at it just in regular light it looked like some weird clown but when you held the light in a certain direction, then you could see a totally different picture. And then they're like, I knew it! It was Butler with the candlestick in the library. So when we investigate things, we might see things in a certain way at the surface. It might be confusing, we might not be able to understand. But then when we see things in the right way, then things become clearer. We solve problems. So this is important. When we're facing a confusion, we have to see it correctly. And when we're facing a confusion, a problem, it's very often our outlook. The way that we see it is the problem. And when we can get rid of our view, we actually might see a solution. So, there was a businessman, an entrepreneur named Robert Taylor. And he had a nice house and he was entertaining guests. And in the guest bathroom, he would put out a bar of soap so that the guests can wash their hands. And then after a while, he would hold a party or something and then he would go into the bathroom and the bar of soap would have in the soap dish under it this ooze of gooey, soapy mess. And he hated it. And so he would always go in and clean it up, clean off that oozy, gooey, soapy mess. And he was like, what is this stuff? And he was really bothered by it. And then one day, while he was cleaning it, he was cleaning up this big glob of soapy goop. Then he said, hey, what if we got rid of the bar of soap and just had the soapy goop? We would put it in a little pump bottle. And then he was the creator of something called soft soap. And that was revolutionary, because then you didn't have to have that bar of soap with that goop on it. It was just a thing of goop that you just got to use. So he invented it, bothered by the goopiness, and then he became a multi-millionaire because of putting the goopiness into something called salt soap. So when you find something that you don't like, you really don't like, it really bugs you, if you look at it the right way, you might find solutions or opportunities. When there's something bad, if you use it the right way, it's good. Yeah, yeah, it's true. Even anything. Like right now we have this really intense, wrathful energy. A really intense, crazy wrathful energy. And if you use this energy in a proper way, there can be opportunities of enlightenment, realization, power, beauty, yogic success, business success, career success, learning success, martial arts success. If you use it properly, then great things happen, wonderful things happen. He was a Swiss inventor. And he went out hiking often. And he enjoyed hiking in the mountains and things. And he was always bothered, because after he would cross a field, he would get in his socks those little burrs, those little things that get stuck in there, and you have to pull them out one by one. And so after a hike, he was frustrated. He was pulling them out one by one. And he's like, ah, these things bug me. Right, everybody bugs you, right? And then one of his friends yelled something to him and he was talking to his friend. And he crossed his legs and his socks touched together. And then when he got back to wanting to pull the little burrs out of his socks, he tried to pull his legs apart and he noticed that the socks stuck together. And he was like, oh, that's interesting. And then he thought about that. First he was bothered by this thing. Then he thought about them sticking together, the socks sticking together. And then he considered it further, pulled the things out more, looked at them, looked at them deeply, saw that they're little things with little hooks. And then he invented Velcro. Remember? I mean, I guess that's still around, but I remember when he first came up with it. Velcro in the 80s, these ways of closing your shoes. It was like, well, brilliant. Well, we thought it, when I was in school, we thought it was really silly. But still, he made millions of dollars doing it. And it was something that bothered him in the beginning. It was something that was bad at first, and then when he learned from it, he found a way that it could be good. So this is the way that we work with adverse conditions, difficulties, hardships, bad things, negative things. We can use this time of intense wrathful energy to get rid of negative views of life, get rid of reactions, get rid of more still meditations. So this is a wonderful thing. Now when you have something you don't like, even the worst thing, it can be a catalyst to liberation. So if something's really, really, really bad, then you've got to do something about it. And if you do something about it where there's Dharma, then it's something that's helpful, enlightening. There was a monk in Tibet, and he would just kind of start thinking or just kind of stay there. And the master came over, the Rinpoche, and you would tell him, you have to focus more. And he's like, okay, I will try. And he would kind of sit there and get to the same level of meditation, not strong enough. So the master said, all right, I'm going to happen to me in there? And he said, well, you're going to meditate really well. He's like, well, but you said there's, why do they call it a demon cave? He's like, oh, because of the horrible demon. And then he's like, well, how am I going to meditate well, when there's a demon there? Isn't the demon going to like, could it hurt me?" He's like, oh yeah, that demon will eat you. And he goes, well, how am I going to meditate well if I'm being eaten? And he said, well, there's the one thing. If you're focused and concentrated, then the demon will eat you." And then he's like, I don't know if I should do it. Master, the Rinpoche goes, come with me. I'll take you there. So he walks into the cave, says, there you go. You're going to be great. So he sits down to meditate and he's kind of going to his normal meditation. Then he like opens his eyes. No, he hears a noise in the cave, and he opens his eyes and about 20 meters off he sees this demon. And he's like, oh my goodness. And the demon is slowly coming close to him, closer and closer. So the demon makes it 19 meters, 18 meters, he's coming slowly, and he goes, oh wait, wait, the Master said if I concentrate, then the demon can't mess with me. So, so he really starts to concentrate, really starts focusing. And then after a little while, he starts to wonder about the demon. So he opens his eyes, and then at 17 meters, you know, 15 meters, and then he closes his eyes again and goes, wait, concentrate, concentrate. And he has a real strong focus, real strong concentration for about an hour. He starts to wonder about the demon. Then he opens his eyes and then the demon is 15 meters away, looks at the demon, the demon starts slowly coming closer. So he continually does this. When he concentrates, the demon is not a problem. But when he starts to wonder, stops focusing, he opens his eyes and the demon comes closer. And he does this for hours and hours, until finally the demon is right in his face. The demon is right upon him. The demon's face is centimeters from his face. So he focuses completely and he goes into samadhi. He goes into this enlightened state of consciousness and is just unfolding in light. He doesn't wonder about the demon anymore. And then he opens his eyes and just sees light everywhere. And everything's just bright and beautiful. There's no demon. And then he bows. Having learned the lesson, he gets up and goes back to the ashram, to the monastery. And then at that point, he had learned how to meditate properly. So from this difficulty, a demon, something you don't like very much, something that causes a lot of harm, something that's scary, it made him medic, made him focus. So this is where we have sangha unity talking about aversion and using the Dharma to overcome difficult situations. So if you haven't seen that, if you didn't call in on that, I definitely recommend that you watch it. It's really beautiful.

0:33:33
All right, so this is the way that

0:33:36
That which you're versed to can be the Dharma The second teaching of passing the gate is That desire is Dharma Desire is Dharma now. This is a good one because in Buddhism the second noble truth of Buddhist teaching states that desire is what causes suffering. So desire is a bad thing. How could desire be dharma? Well, this is an advanced teaching. This is what we call tantric teaching, the bardos. The bardos are not like basic beginning teachings. They are in the Vajrayana, the tantra, the advanced kind of teaching. I'm just delivering it in a way that beginners can also access. But we're doing this teaching because it's a living teaching, something that is happening because of Tsu-Lan's death and the stage that he's at in the Barlos. So that way there's a powerful living Dharma, something you can really, really learn from, even though the structure of it tends to be a bit more advanced. So, simple teaching to understand as a beginner and intermediate student is that if you have desire, it will cause suffering. But when you get to this more advanced teaching of the bardo, it is that desire is dharma. And it's true. Desire is dharma. Now, there's different kinds of desire. You might say, I desire to eat cake. That's my desire. And that's not so bad, but if you eat a lot of cake, you might become a sumo wrestler. You might be a candidate for sumo. And so that might not be healthy for you. So we have to look deeper, even if you have a desire to eat cake, you to What causes that now every desire even a desire to eat cake stems from a seed of yearning? for liberation If you desire something you desire it because you want to be happy you want to be free it's just that most people don't have skillful ways of Approaching happiness and freedom. They say video games and cake, whatever. They don't do things in a way that fulfill their heart's desire, their spirit's desire for liberation. So I had a student and she was overeating. And she comes to me, she's like, I'm overeating, what should I do? I desire to eat cake all the time. And I recognized that she was anxious, and that she was sensitive, psychically sensitive. She was dealing with stressful energies of the world, and she wasn't doing it in a good way. She decided to eat to push off the stressful energies. And that's ultimately something that will be unhealthy after some time. So I recommended that she learn karate. So she learned karate, and in learning karate, she got strong. She was able to face an opponent and do sparring and fighting. And so she was able to, in a very developmental way, face hardship and deal with that energy and also learn how to block it, learn how to manipulate it, learn how to defend yourself from it. So then the energies of the world, the stresses of the world, instead of being a victim, she had a certain kind of inner resilience and power. She had these inner skills and awarenesses of how to deal with that. And then, so once she had these skills for martial arts, then she didn't feel anxiety, and she didn't feel the stress of the world because she had learned how to deal with those things. And then, overeating was not a problem. Then she found that she didn't need to overeat. So she's like, I don't need cake. I've got karate. Yeah, so it's true. This is the way it is. So for my black belt who ate too much, he has certain stresses that he needs to work on. So martial arts is one dimension of it, but there's other ways. Compassion is another dimension of it. But even though he's overweight, he still has the body of a pro-athlete. I mean, in Japan, sumos are pro-athletes. So there's all sorts of ways. There was this pirate, and the pirate had a parrot. The pirate had a parrot. And the parrot was eating too much. Overeating parrots. And the parrot got big and fat. And then the parrot died. And then the pirate was like, I'm talking about fat. So my teacher was talking about fat one day, and he said that fat blocks spiritual energy. So it blocks the movement of Kundalini. It blocks receiving Shakti. So he told us to exercise and eat a healthy diet, because if you have fat, then it slows down your spiritual, Now, when we talk about desire, we don't talk about things like eating cake. I mean, eating cake is okay, but eating too much cake. And it's not like those small desires for the thing with a small view, not understanding the truth of things, because those things will trap you. Those things will cause suffering. So, when we're talking about desire brings dharma, we're talking about finding out deeper aspects of our being that have a desire. It's spirit yearning to be free. We have to get down to that level of understanding when we look at what we desire. So you can desire, but desire a famous Indian guru of Kriya Yoga. His name was Lahiri Mahasaya. And he was meditating for some time, he was under instruction by his guru, and he had this magical guru. And one day his magical guru took him, said, okay, come over here. Like, we're going to, tonight you're going to attain enlightenment. And he said, OK, I'm ready. Sure, sounds good. And so they walk somewhere to this mountainside. And then he goes, this is magic, the guru, and this beautiful palace appears. And he says, this is your palace. And then Mahali Mahasaya goes, okay, great. I always wanted a palace. So they go into the palace, and then they go into the dining room, and then there's some other yogis there, and then there's this beautiful feast, an amazing feast on golden plates. And they have this wonderful meal and Lahili Mahasaya says, I always wanted a meal like this. And then after the end of the meal, Lahili Mahasaya looks around and says, Wow, I've always wanted a palace and a big beautiful feast like this, and now I'm fulfilled. And then after that, he becomes enlightened. So, the last thing that he needed for his enlightenment was a palace and a beautiful meal served on golden plates. And so, we often think of, in order to be enlightened, that we have to get rid of fancy things. The monk has to sit in the cave or the ashram or something. But it could be that the last thing that one needs is to have a palace. That desire came from his enlightened self, his higher self. He desired a higher, brighter, more beautiful condition. And he experienced that condition, and that condition was the Dharma. And that final experience of Dharma, or desire that brings this beautiful Dharma was the thing that freed him. So it's okay and it's good to have esteem for higher beautiful things, an aesthetic beyond the highest aesthetic. It's totally fine. You could want to have a beautiful apartment, you could want to have a beautiful car, nice beautiful restaurants. There's nothing wrong with that in Buddhism, in spirituality, unless you want those things for the ego, for the small self, for the limited self. The limited self is like, I'm not whole until I have this. I'm not complete unless I have that. I'm desiring these things because I need it. If that's where you're coming from, that's where desire creates suffering. However, when you come from a place of spirit, and your spirit is a beautiful place, a place of good energy, good power. Even though it's very expensive, it's very wonderful, but my spirit will feel aligned there. My spirit will be bright there. for a higher way. So often this spiritual yearning, it's very powerful because it breaks you out of patterns of how you see yourself. So my teacher sometimes would take us to one the New York hotels, like the Pierre or something, right? Or the Waldorf Astoria, the top Manhattan hotels. And we would go in and wear tuxedos and ball gowns. And so, to go into that experience was very different than what I thought of myself. I thought of myself wearing Kung Fu clothes and practicing Kung Fu and stuff. And then all of a sudden I'm in the Four Seasons in Beverly Hills, or I'm in New York at the Waldorf Astoria wearing a tuxedo. And it changes your view of yourself. It's a higher aesthetic. And then I say, Oh, I like that feeling. Rather than just sitting around wearing my Kung Fu clothes, to have that higher elevated experience of the way I dress, the beautiful room, the wonderful food, the wonderful hotel, it's a higher tonal, a higher aesthetic. And the spirit, when it esteems for something higher, it brings an elegance, it brings a refinement to your attention. So it changes the way that you look at things. So desiring something wonderful isn't a bad thing. So I remember there was a gal, she was a new student, she worked in a health food store, she was just barely getting by, and she was all into healthy living and stuff, kind of a hippie, I guess you would say. So her meditation teacher was an older teacher. She bought a brand new Mercedes, and it was a luxury car, and they would go up to Mount Tamalpais, a very beautiful spiritual mountain outside of San Francisco. They would go over there on the weekends. She got picked up by her meditation teacher. She said that this was the first time she sat in a new car, and she said that it was the first time she had been in a luxury car. Her experience driving up the mountain was just a very elevated experience. She was so like, Wow, this is so beautiful, this feels so good, this feels so nice. She had an elevated experience during the drive. So, after a year or so of that, she ended up moving from California to New York, and then she was working and things. And then she said, you know what? I want that. I desire that. But not from an egotistical point. Just because it was an elevated spiritual experience. I'd love to drive around having that feeling the whole time. So then she worked really hard. She became a computer programmer. She raised the money. And then she drove around and she felt wonderful. She connected with that feeling, that elevated feeling. So a lot of times in Buddhism, we're like, no, you've got to be poor. Poor is good, right? Well, there's Buddhist monks in China who are authentic Buddhist monks, who wear beautiful silk clothing, who drive beautiful cars, and they're monks. So, yeah, desiring things, if you do it in a skillful way, when you come from the deepest yearning of the self for liberation, is okay. It's good. Now, I know another story. There was an older student of my teacher, and my teacher would talk about this place north of New York, Greenwich, Connecticut. It was an area called Round Hill Road, and Round Hill Road was a place with a lot of large estates, big, beautiful houses. And I think the houses there kind of started at like $10 million, very expensive, beautiful place. But even to drive by these houses, like I would drive by because it's just beautiful and it felt good just driving by. And then he said to himself, I would like to own one of these houses here. This is the place where I would like to live, to have that feeling. This is where I would like to meditate. So having that inspiration, that desire, he did his job yoga very well uh... he also started uh... yoga company software company and he worked hard he worked very hard very impeccably very selflessly to to this to achieve this goal and then eventually he was very successful he sold his company for tens of millions of dollars, and he bought a house on Round Hill Road. And then a few months after he was living there, I asked him about it. I said, So how do you like it? You're living in this amazing place. And he said it brought him the greatest his meditations were the highest he had ever experienced. So this is like Lahili Mahasaya. Something in his spirit wanted to experience being in a palace. You could say that would be the worst kind of desire that would trap someone, liberates you, if you are skillful in the way that you use desire for liberation. So, this is a wonderful thing. Now, it could also be small things. So, I remember another time for me, when I was kind of a new student, I went to get a tie. So, I was like, you know, not going to be able to buy a Mercedes or a house on Round Hill Road or something like that, but I was like, I'm going to get a really good tie. And I went out, found a really, really good tie, and then when I wore the tie, if I went to a Thought Song where we were wearing ties or out to dinner with friends or something, I felt empowered. I felt an elevated state of consciousness because of wearing a tie. It could be socks, you might go out and get some cool socks. And when you wear those socks when you meditate, if you go out and do something that is an act of desire from the yearning of the spirit for liberation, it creates a beautiful aesthetic, a beautiful way, a beautiful expression. And then from that, there's a higher light, a higher consciousness. So this is the dharma. So there's the recognition of the dharma in both. But there's the higher dharma, and that is being neither attracted or repulsed. So this means that the teaching in the bardo is to have recognition that there's good things that can come from aversion. There's good things that can come from desire. But the highest yoga is the discrimination, which comes from not being attracted, grabbing onto stuff, and not running away from stuff. And this is the highest teaching of the Bardo, at all. Because maybe if you remember some of the teachings, they would say, OK, now this light will come. And when this light comes, you're going to want to run away, but don't run away. But if you run away, you're going to find this other light, and you're going to like it, but don't go to that light. So they say this many, many, many times. They show these things many, many times. And these are things where, don't be averse to what's happening, and don't be attracted to something else. So, these are the teachings. Now I'd like to talk about the four bardos, the way that we discuss the bardos, in terms of not being attractive and not being rupulse. So when you enter the first bardo, it's kind of like you're in the dark and then there's at the end, like at the end of the tunnel there's a light, and you start coming closer to the light. And everything's nice. You're going towards this light, it's a beautiful peaceful light, and everything's really nice, you're going towards the light. And then as you get closer, you see that the light is super intense. The light is the clear light of reality, the Dharmakaya. It's intense, it's very powerful, and the closer you get, the more you have aversion, you have fear. Now, this is the ultimate reality, and the fear is so intense it. And you would have to be really very skilled to be able to transform that fear into the way of enlightenment. You would have to have perfect seeing to be able to accept that light and not have fear. So then you flee, and then you end up in the second bardo. The second bardo is where you're still very close to this world, and this is where if you have aversion or desire, what happens is you tend to stick around too long. So when somebody passes away, it's very natural for someone to stay around for maybe two weeks, a month and a half, maybe two months. So that means that they're present, kind of like as a ghost. They're present, they're around, they might be going to different places that they've spent in their lifetime, looking at things, saying goodbye, giving their last regards to things and people, and then they move on to the third part. Now, if you have aversion or desire, then you'll stay longer, there's some imbalance. You want something or you're upset about something. And that's what we tend to call a ghost. It's like you go into some house and it's haunted and there's some ghost there who doesn't want you there and is mad and all upset and scares you. So that's what we call a ghost. someone who's got too much aversion or desire in the second bardo, so they hang around and they're out of balance, they're disgruntled and they're not moving on in a natural progression to the third bardo. So for example, I was out by the beach here in Pacifica, and across from the beach, there's a nursing home. And so the first five deaths of COVID-19 happened in this area, in this town, in our county,

1:01:27
happened in that nursing home.

1:01:28
And I was walking by a nursing home, and I saw a ghost standing in front of it. It was an elderly lady, wearing white hospital robes or something. She looked bothered. So then I said, what's wrong?" And she said, well, you know, my daughter should be here and my daughter's not here. So before the coronavirus, her daughter would visit her and then her daughter didn't visit her. So she had an attachment. She wanted to see her daughter and she wouldn't leave. She wouldn't go on because she wanted to see her daughter. She had a desire for something, which becomes an attachment, which keeps you in the second barda. And then, I showed her her daughter. She was able to say goodbye, and then she was able to go to the third barda. This is all, you know, psychically. So, this is what happens. This happens a lot like with houses, right? The haunted house. The ghost is like, this is my house. I'm attached to this place. I like it, and if you come into it, then I'm going to fight you and give you a hard time and try to scare you because I don't like it. So, that's desire that becomes attachment that holds you in a bardo. The other form is the aversion, something bad. So some ghosts in the second bardo, they stay because something really bad happened to them, and they're attached to the horrific event, or they can't let go of the idea that something bad happened and that they have to resolve it, or they don't know how to resolve it. So if a being was killed, they killed themselves, if something really, if they died suddenly, then they could be confused, they could be really upset about the way they died, and then they have an attachment and they stay. So this happens quite frequently two who end up staying. And I remember one time I was with some of my students and we were taking a trip to the south of France. And we came to this one cute little town. And we were staying in this really, this hotel, it made in a really, really, really old building. I think it was 800, I think the first floor was 850 years old. Anyway, so my room was on the first floor. And I went into my room, it was a really beautiful hotel. And I immediately noticed there's a ghost in my room. And so I look at the ghost, and it's a ghost of us of a woman who was Brutally murdered some terrible thing happened to her and she was all She looked very scary like all beaten and bloody and all this stuff and she was all mad about it So I was like wow and I was like, let's make a deal You stay in that corner and I'm away from my bed and don't wake me up. You can make deals. So these are the things, when people get stuck because of desires or aversions, they get stuck in the second varda. So if you're not attracted, then you don't have attachment, you don't have desire. If you're not repulsed, then you don't have anger, you don't have confusion. And then you naturally will flow on to the third bardo. Now in the third bardo and the yellow light of Ratna Sambara appears. And when that yellow light appears, it's this enlightened light. And this light, if you stay in this light, you can become liberated, you gain great wisdom. But it's such a piercing bright light that most people run away from it. So the teaching is to not be repulsed by the light, to not run away from the light, to accept the light. And then at the same time, what appears, if you run from it, is the blue light of the human realm. And that would get you into karma. So they say, don't be attracted to that light. And then you go through this, this is the high teaching of the bardos. Then you come to the fourth bardo, then you're going to be born. Then you're on your way to your next incarnation. And there's many teachings of recognition of things that you could see as scary and recognize them as your own mind. When you're on the summit, there's things where you're recognizing the yin and yang of life, male and female energy. So there's a time where you see the mother and the father energy, where you're going to be born. And you will have a strong attraction for union with the opposite sex. And then you'll have jealousy towards the same sex. So they say, don't have attraction or jealousy. This is the teaching. Because if you do, you're going to get caught up in some really heavy karmas. But if you can see them both without being attracted or repulsed, then there's a great wisdom and great freedom. And it's a way where then when you're born you have great knowledge. So through the bardos, this teaching is the highest teaching. Recognizing that there is aversion, and aversion can bring learning, empowerment in the dharma. Recognizing that there is desire, and desire can bring learning, empowerment in dharma, is very important. But the highest teaching of the Bharata at all is not to be attached, not to be repulsed, not to want something and attach to something and not to run away from things. It is a teaching of pure seeing, pure discernment of truth. And when you have this, when you're not pulled and swayed, you're not going from this and running from that, that's when you can cross the gate. So we're going to conclude with a little story, crossing the gate. Just an analogy. There was a Rinpoche in the Himalayas with his three students and he said, we're going to go to this refuge, this cave, and on the way we're if you have any thoughts of desire, so they got these sticks and two buckets on each end of the stick that they had to hold and the Rinpoche got one too and he said, okay, so while we're walking on this trail to this cave where we're going to meditate together, a special magical enlightenment cave, cave of wonders, he said, so if you have a thought of desire, you can pick up a rock on the path and put it in the left bucket. And then if you have a thought of negativity, anger, some negative thing, then you pick up a rock and put it in the right. And then this way you're observing, this is your mindfulness practice on the way. So they go walking down the trail. And when they get to the cave, one of the monks just thought a bunch of bad negative thoughts. So he's holding it like this. And to get to the cave, you had to kind of climb up a little wall. And he goes, OK, climb up, but you have to hold it." And he's like, I can't, it's heavy. So he can't climb up the wall because he's holding the heavy negative thoughts. And then the second monk, he had some good thoughts and some bad thoughts. So he gets there and he goes, that's great, climb up. He's like, I can't, it's too heavy. And then even the third monk, he just had all good thoughts. He had thoughts that are happy, but he had desire, and then put the rocks over on the left, and he also couldn't climb up. So the master had no thoughts. His bookets were empty, and he was able to climb up, and then he became enlightened, because he already was. But, so this is just another, this is a little story about, you know, being either attached or adverse. Because any thoughts that you have are going to be too heavy to cross the gate. So we're going to do the crossing of the gate. Crossing of the gate is a transmission. So you're just going to look up here towards me, light focused on the third eye, and this is a beautiful teaching. So just still your mind, look towards me, experience the transmission. This is a transmission for you, a living teaching for you, and it is a transmission that has a very profound effect for so long.

1:13:39
Okay, sit up nice and straight.

1:13:41
Let's begin.

1:13:41
♪♪ the the the the So so the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the so Wonderful. So thank you for coming to this special teaching during this very powerful transit.

1:18:35
This is very good. So be well. So be well.

1:18:37
I'll see you soon.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
