0:00:00
Hello. Welcome! We're going to begin with meditation. So we're just going to sit for one song. We're going to focus on the heart chakra. Sit up nice and straight. And let's

0:00:21
. Thank you. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the the the the the the so the the the the Thank you.

0:03:43
All right, so we're here today to talk about my favorite subject, which is Bodhisita, the yoga of compassion. And we are in a difficult time, a time of adverse conditions. So this is a time where we focus on transforming adversity into the pathway of awakening. And today I'd like to talk about one of the Lojong mind training slogans which is very very very powerful, very very helpful. It's one of the the greatest and most fundamental slogans or teachings in Bodhichitta. It is, be grateful to everyone. Be grateful for everything. So, gratitude is a powerful ally for a spiritual seeker. When you have gratitude, that's when your heart opens. If you don't have gratitude, that's where the heart hardens. So we practice gratitude. And the great thing is that you can be grateful for everything. So, like, gratitude is the correct acknowledgement that everything in your life is a gift from the universe, from God. Your job, your car, your apartment, your house are gifts from the divine. And then you might say, well I had to pay for those gifts. And the money that you got was a gift from the divine. I had to work for that money. And your job was a gift from the divine. See most people look at it in the, well I had to work for it. They do this thing where it's like everything is like this routine of consciousness, this difficulty that everyone's going through and their whole life is like, I mean you can go to someone living in Beverly Hills, oh I've got this giant house and all this money and oh my life's so hard. My life is so hard. Um, whatever, right? Anywhere, anytime. Rich or poor, ugly or uglier, people could complain about everything being difficult. Or you could look at life as a miracle, and everything that you have is a gift, and it's a very beautiful thing. So when we look at life as, you know, out of the routine, not just everything that we have is I want it or I don't like it, so this desire and aversion or attachment, obligation, trouble, like everything I'm dealing with is so... right? What we do is we say everything is a gift, even if it's not, um, you know, like, you know, it's like when you're under the Christmas tree in America and you're like, oh yeah, grandma got me a gift and you open it and it's like a pair of socks and you're like, you're like, you wanted like the next video game or whatever these kids are doing these days and then you get socks and you're like, socks. Socks, be grateful for socks, they're a miracle. So we really want to look at, I mean socks are important, so we really want to look at our lives in terms of the miraculousness of it and be grateful for everything and every little thing. And why not? Because if you look at everything in a routine manner, you just reduce everything to the size of a leprechaun. But if you look at things in the bigger reality, you say, wow, it's amazing. Look, look, I'm going to show you. I usually, you guys can't see this usually I bought little flowers here and these are from like the backyard and they're really beautiful so I'm grateful for this yeah so so every time that I'm sitting here with you like somebody goes out and does a little Ikebana and and and finds these beautiful flowers and uh that's something to be grateful for so be grateful for everything in your life when you're when you're grateful you're acknowledging the wonder of life, the magic of life. When you're grateful, you're like, oh, everything that comes is a gift from God, the universe, the divine, It's a happier life. When you're grateful, it's the same thing, the same garbage, but you just shift to look at the garbage and say, whoa, it's pretty garbage. It's very important though, because there's always garbage, but you have to see the garbage as this amazing thing. Amazing garbage. Life is garbage, but it's amazing garbage. Okay, so I was flying, I was on my way to Budapest, Hungary, to meet with the sangha there. And I had to fly through London Heathrow, which is a terrible airport, except for Terminal 5. Anyway so I was um I was flying on business class and the guy sitting across the aisle from me was a Buddhist monk wearing dark brown robes so I was like oh I'm like, are you a Buddhist monk? He's like, no. Just kidding. He's a Buddhist monk. So there's this Vietnamese Buddhist monk sitting in business class. I'm like, that's funny. You know, I've flown on flights before where there were Buddhist monks. They always sit in economy class because, you know, they're trying to be frugal. And then he's like, well, he's like, my congregation, my monastery, they really like to give me the best that they can. He's like, I don't ask for it, they just put me in business class. And I'm like, oh, that's really cool. And we were just talking, and then he told me how he became a Buddhist monk. He's like, actually I just became... so this guy was like, he was like super old, like 34, something like that, and he's like, I just became a Buddhist monk like a couple years ago, and I was like, oh, oh okay. I'm like, and they're still... your whole monastery and congregation is like trying to help you out so much?" He's all, yeah, I guess. So he told me eventually how he became... we were chatting. We were doing like Buddhist chatting. I was all like, it's like Buddhist arm wrestle. I'm like, I was in a small village in Vietnam, and then ever since he was a kid, he grew up going to the temple. The temple was maybe 10 minutes outside of the village, and there was the Buddhist master, and he always went there. And the Buddhist master would do calligraphy. So he had these beautiful calligraphy... like, he would do them as his yoga. Calligraphies. And then he would go there, and the Zen master would do... you know, stand at the altar, ring the bell, light the incense, speak, you know, of a sutra and give a teaching. So he went there as a kid for a long time, you know, he's like, whatever, whatever I do. And it was just like a routine. He liked it, it was okay, I mean that's just what he did. Then when he grew up, he moved to the city and then And then he made a lot of money. And he was doing very well. He became a millionaire. So he moved to Saigon. And it was like he was just doing really well. And then a typhoon hit. And the typhoon hit in the region of his hometown. So when the typhoon hit, he rushed back from the city to his town to help his parents. And he like even drove there right when the storm was hitting the worst. And he got to his town and he helped his parents and everyone was okay, but there was a lot of damage done. Lots of buildings got destroyed and everything. So he's like, wow, wow, this is really tough. But he's like, I got a lot of money, I can help the family rebuild and all this stuff. So he's like, good, good guy. And then it came to that Saturday where they would go to the, to that Buddhist temple, 10 minutes outside of town. And they were like, oh, yikes, you know, this temple is probably really messed up, destroyed, like many of the buildings and houses in the town. So they were like, whoa, this is going to be very difficult. It's going to be, we're going to have, and he's like okay I could help support the temple as well you know we can do reconstruction so he was like in fix-it mode and then they traveled to the temple the temple was untouched by the storm and he was thinking before wow I remember that temple growing up there and going there every week and the calligraphies and the old teacher teaching, Zen Master teaching. And when he got there and he saw that everything was still there, the same, that's where he had, all of a sudden, his heart opened and he had gratitude. Before it was just a routine, like, you know, like a lot of people just go to church. It's And he went to that temple and said, I thought that this was all gone. In his mind, it was gone. And everything, you know, he could do everything in his power to make something new, but it would never be that same thing. And he saw in the calligraphies, so much beauty in the ringing of the bell, just so much heart. And then the incense, so much light. It was like, oh, this everything that's been here my whole life is so amazing. And I'm so grateful for it. But most of his life, he wasn't grateful. He was just all, I gotta go to church on Sunday. But once he went through that experience, a recognition that it could be gone, then he was grateful that it was there. And once he saw that, then he said, I'm quitting my job. I think it was in marketing. No, it was in media or something. He's like, I'm quitting my job and I'm becoming a Buddhist monk. Now he had lots of money, so he just gave it all to the church. So I think that's what put him on business class. So. We have to look at our lives and say we're going through our lives and everything is what it is, but like let's wake up to it and have a recognition that everything in our lives are magical. It's not just a temple. Everything's magical. You know, Buddha said, he had this big teaching, I've taught it before, precious human life. We have a very precious life. Our lives are precious. The fact that we're alive is wonderful. It's magic. It's powerful. It's great. The fact that we're Life is this flux of magic and light. And if you get into routines or conflicts, then you get stuck. You get crystallized out of life. And it's very important to recognize our lives are wonderful, your mind is wonderful, the fact that you can be cognitive and aware and to even dream and think of higher possibilities of liberation is a very beautiful thing. It's a wonderful thing. So Buddha said, do not bemoan any physical ailment or difficulty with another person. Just be so happy to have your awareness awake and alive. the goodness of your human awareness, which he said was a very rare thing. He said, you will throw your head back and laugh into the sky. Ha ha ha ha. It's true. And sometimes he would take students and take them into the forest and he would say, you see all the trees. And here at the Dharma Villa, he would say, you see all the trees. And here at the Dharma Villa, we have lots of trees. The Dharma Villa is in a very nice location. It's on the edge of a state park. And there's miles of trees and bushes. bushes and we look up and we see them. It's a beautiful place. So I'm in the Dharma Villa, I'm not in Bodhi Woods. Yeah, I got quarantined here, but we'll see. So when you're, you know, in this process of understanding the beauty of life, the wonder of life, that Buddha says, you're a human, it's amazing. Then you start to appreciate things. But if you just look at everybody, and you're like, look at everybody shopping on Walmart for Europeans, Tesco,

0:23:22
Ubi, trying to make,

0:23:24
trying to connect with the Europeans.

0:23:26
Then you end up going into a routine awareness. But you have to realize that life is alive. And that being alive, you should be grateful. You should love life and be grateful for life. You shouldn't get into weird routines. You should think, yes, this is good. Now people have this funny thing. We call it, I'm in Buddhism, we call it problem-seeking mind. So you can be in the perfect situation, something really great, and then you go, hmm, I don't like it. I find a problem with it. I'm bothered by it. Problem seeking mind. But what we practice, what's very important is don't look for problems. The mind likes to find problems.

0:24:52
It's all, hmm, I don't like this.

0:24:55
Find gratefulness. Find gratitude. Look at everything in your life

0:25:05
and the good things that you've got.

0:25:06
You've got so many good things. If you're listening to me and you have a heartbeat, you got a lot of good things going on. So come on, look at the good stuff. And also, we're going to get into it, but the bad stuff ain't so bad either. The bad stuff is how you grow, how you develop yourself. Buddha had all sorts of problems and difficulties. He was a jerk and he did weird things and then he finally figured it out and then he did good things. So, you can do... and so can you. That's what I meant to say. So, yeah, yeah, we start off not the best, but we learn the Dharma, and like Buddha, we go from making mistakes to making perfections. And gratitude is a perfection. Gratitude is a powerful, powerful way. So, in the lower dharma teaching, they say, be grateful to everyone. And if you're grateful to everyone, dharma just explodes. You follow the path. If you can be grateful, if you can really, really look at your life and be grateful, then the Dharma will unfold from the gratitude. Gratitude is the doorway to Dharma. I mean, think about the basic teaching, right? The basic teaching of Bodhisitta is, and this is the traditional teaching for monks. So if you're a mom, it might be different. But you say, my mother helped me so much. My mother birthed me, raised me, fed me, wiped away my filth. I don't know why they say that in Tibetan, but it's part of Tibetan Buddhism. I'm like, I don't know. And then my mother did all these wonderful things for me. And yet, my mother also suffers. So if I have a recognition of what my mother's done for me, then I am grateful to her. And if I'm grateful to her, then I can have compassion. Right? So gratitude is the pathway to compassion. So this is a very powerful teaching. And when you follow compassion, the compassion grows. It's the Dharma. A long time ago in ancient China, where they, like, I don't know, this might be mythology, all of my stories are completely true. Okay, so there was this very poor man, and he was like, oh, I'm suffering because I'm poor. He's like, why am I poor? Why is it that I don't have any power? Why is it that I don't have any spirit or dharma in my life?

0:29:06
He's all, hmm.

0:29:07
Then he hears someone say, there is the master of light, an enlightened Taoist teacher teaching over in the West. So he says, I need to find my answers to my difficulties, because I'm suffering. So he travels. And he goes traveling, traveling, traveling. And he first comes to, he's traveling for a long time without, he's poor, right, so he's traveling for a long time, like days, without food, and he finally comes to this place where he lays down and goes, I can't make it any further. And then a woman comes over and she offers him a place to stay. And she is deaf and she's deaf and mute. So she can't talk, she can't hear. So he's like talking to her, she can't talk back, but she offers him food and stuff, you know, like a place to stay. And then he's like, oh, and he just hangs out with her. He's like, oh, this lady can't hear, can't talk. So weird stuff. And then he goes, and then he's like, well, thanks for helping me out. And then he goes on. Then he comes to a river. And there's this big river, raging river. And he's like, hmm, how am I going to cross it to get to the enlightened teacher to ask him to solve my problem? And then he's like looking, looking, doesn't find a way, can't find a way. And then all of a sudden, this giant turtle comes up out of the water. And the turtle has this amazing golden shell. And the turtle says, oh, you want to go across? Jump on my giant golden shell. I will take you across. And so the turtle takes him across and then you know while they're going across he's like hey turtle wow you're really cool I like you a lot and he's like you know what do you know what's going on with you and turtle does well I really want to be an enlightenment dragon but I'm just a turtle and I'm trying to figure out how to be an Enlightenment Dragon, so that's what I'm working on. And then the guy goes, okay, okay. And he gets across and he goes, okay, bye turtle. But he's really appreciative and grateful for the turtle to get him across the river. Then he goes walking a little bit more, and he comes to this giant mountain. And then the Enlightened Teacher is on the other side of the mountain. He's like, how am I going to get over this mountain? It's too big. It's a mountain range. You can't just go around it. And then he runs into this Taoist master who has a magical staff. He's like this mystical Taoist. And then he goes, oh. And he's like, I know. He's like, I know the master's over there. And he's like, I could take you. And he's like, because I have a magical staff. And then he uses the magical staff to teleport them or fly them or something over the mountain. And then he goes back. So he meets with the enlightened master was teaching, giving many teachings, answering lots of questions, and when it finally came to him at the end, he said, I will answer three questions, and then I must, you know, withdraw. And then he's like, then he thought, he's like, even though I have these very pressing questions for myself, I have a care for the people who help me out. A gratitude for the people who helped me up, which for him was greater than his own concerns and suffering. So he said, I met this girl and she can't hear. And then the enlightened teacher said, if you speak the Dharma to her, she will have hearing. She will have hearing and she will have speech. It will be hearing truth and speech of truth. And then there was this turtle who wants to be an enlightenment dragon, whatever that is, and then he goes oh, okay, so the turtle, he's holding on to his shell, and his shell is very precious, but as long as he holds to that shell he's not flipping up, and if he opens up, he'll And there was this poor Taoist, amazing magical guy, but he wanted to go to Taoist heaven. Like, his goal was to be in Taoist heaven. Oh, his staff was his anchor.

0:35:07
And that anchor will hold it.

0:35:09
release the self and then he can go to Dallas Heaven. So he hears these teachings, those are his three questions, nothing about himself. So he goes, I'm still poor and ignorant of the Dharma. So he goes back to the mountain range and he tells the Taoist master, hey, you know, that enlightened guy, that enlightened master said, you know, the thing about your staff and he goes, aha! And he gives the guy the staff and says, I am free. And then he shoots up to Taoist heaven. Taoist heaven's pretty good." And then he goes, wow, cool. And he's like, oh, now I've caught the staff, so I know how to get over the mountains. So he goes over the mountain range, then he comes to the river's edge, and then the turtle comes over and throws like, hey. And then he says, hey, this is what the enlightened one said. And he's like, wow, I never thought about that. She's like, because I always thought my shell was my protection. Then the turtle opened his shell and then his spirit shot up and became an enlightenment dragon. And then there was nothing left except for a golden shell. And then with the magic of the staff, the guy was able to levitate this giant golden shell and bring it with him. he came past the woman's meager, you know, like, face. And he goes over to her and then he says, and then he tells her the story of what he had been through. And hearing the of the teachings, all of a sudden she could hear and she could speak. And everything that she said was very high spiritual dharma. She was an expression of truth. She only heard truth. And then he ended up pretty good because he had the golden shell, which was a lot of money. He was poor, but then he was rich. He was powerless, but then he was powerful.

0:38:09
He was without dharma, and he spread the dharma.

0:38:12
And then her dharma was even stronger and higher. And all of his suffering went away because he had gratitude for everyone who helped. So if you have gratitude for others, what happens is, what's that thing called? Karma? No, no, no, it's karma. What goes around comes around, for real. And I've got a New York story. If it happens in New York, it's got to be real. Or, is it hot dog? Okay, so, Frankfurt is better. We're international here, okay? Okay, so, I knew a student, my teacher, and a lot of us lived outside of New York City, take the train in to go to work. So this one student was coming back kind of late at night after his martial arts class and he was taking the train to Westchester and that's like kind of where we live just like 45-50 minutes outside of New York, and it's like a suburb, but a good suburb, like nice houses. And he was sitting there working on his computer on the way back, you know, doing his computer programming. And then they got off at this one stop or they came to a stop and he just noticed there was an elderly lady, and she started to get up. You know? And then it took her a while, and he was, like, in the middle of code, and he's like, oh, it's taking her kind of a long while. And then there was a man, so he thought, maybe I should help him, I should help her. And then there was this other man closer to her who got up, helped her up, and she had a cane and he walked her to the door, walked her outside, and then outside, he didn't just leave her off and just walk back in. He helped her a little bit more. And the train doors closed. And like a few passengers saw what happened, because most people are reading newspapers or something. But a few people saw what was going on. And so the train kept going. And I was like, oh my God, the poor guy. So I was very grateful for what he did. I thought he did something super cool. And I actually wish that I would have been as quick as him to help her out. But I wouldn't want to get caught off by my laptop or something. And I was like, wow, what he did was super cool. Okay, so a guy who sat really next, like right across from him, got up and saw his briefcase and his jacket that was sitting on the train next to him. And the guy was like, you know, he looked okay, but he took the jacket and he reached into the pocket and he pulled out his wallet and he looked in it and saw that there was money. And then the student of my teacher said, I think that guy is probably going to take the cash and mail the wallet back. He's got that feeling. So he walked right over to the guy and said, and he said, he said, hey, James is my co-worker. And he just made up a name. The guy had his license in there, identification. But he said, hey, James is my co-worker. Made it up. And he goes, I'm going to, like, give me that stuff, because I'll give it to him tomorrow at work. And the guy's all, oh, oh, OK. So that was his intention. He was inspired by the guy. He thought this other guy might take his money. And then he actually got his stuff. I think it was a jacket and an attache case and the wallet. And when he looked in the wallet, because he tried to find out where the guy lived. The guy had over a thousand dollars, so he had like a lot of cash. And he's like, okay. So that night when he got home, he took a taxi all the way to this other guy's place, and he gave it to him. And the guy says, wow, I was so worried about this. I'm so happy to get everything in my briefcase is very important. And this is back in the 90s, so he's like, the pictures of my kids in my wallet are very important. That's before we used to like have, what do you call those things? Phones, I think, smartphones. So he's like, these pictures are special to me. Everything in my briefcase is very important to me. And he's like, so thank you so much. And then he's like, I'm going to give you the $1,000 in my wallet. And he's like, no, no, I don't have to accept it. And he's like, I want to give it to you. And then he was like, OK, I'll accept it. So he was first really, really felt a gratitude for this guy helping out this lady. And then, because of that, he took charge where the other guy might have taken the cash, which if he returned it, he would have gotten it anyway, but it would be the wrong state. And then he took a taxi, which cost him a lot of money, you know, to get to the guy and give it back to him. So he was grateful for what the guy did, and the guy was grateful for what he did. It was like, that's the way we need to live our lives, grateful for each other. And that means being selfless and positive and doing well for each other. And here's the funny thing. So that was a wonderful thing. He got a thousand dollars and he tried to say, no, I don't need it. But the guy's like, no, no, at least thank Let me thank you. Let people be grateful to you." And he did, and was positive and helpful. So here's the great thing of the story. So it was like 12, 14 months later, he was going a giant step in his career. He was going for a big jump in his rate for salary. And there was this really important, powerful job interview that he had. And he went there and he did okay. You know, he was a computer programmer and did okay in the tech interview. And then, just as a matter of process, they had him at the end meet the main manager, who is the director of—this was Lehman Brothers. They're not around anymore, but they used to be big. And so he goes into this parquet and going into the corner office to talk to the big boss, just as a matter of practice, process. And then he walks in and the big boss is the guy from the train. And the guy from the train goes, hey, is that you? He's like, yeah, is that you? Yeah. And then he's like, you're hired. He's like, he might have done not as good as others, maybe. He's like, I did OK on the tech interview. But it's like, that's the kind of person you want to work with, right? Someone who has compassion for you, someone who has gratitude for you. That was gratitude and gratitude. So that's a wonderful story.

0:48:22
This is...

0:48:27
And that's in New York City. There's 10 million people there. And then these things come together. So, even if the stories don't come together, if you have compassion, these serendipities come together. In every other way. It doesn't have to be the person you met on the train. I love that story though. Gordon, this student, he had this beautiful story. So, yeah, you've got Gratitude is the doorway to compassion. Gratitude makes you happy, makes other people happy. And then we get to troublemakers. When someone's a troublemaker, when people are being bad, because people are bad. Even though you're like, I'm very compassionate. We're compassionate, but we're not stupid. We're not stupid. Compassion is powerful. But when there's troublemakers, We acknowledge it and we deal with it in a very strong way. Not in a way that harms us or them. In a way that enlightens both of us.

0:50:13
This is the way.

0:50:14
But we're gonna take a break. It's good to take a break. I keep on thinking, why aren't we taking breaks? And guess what? We're gonna take a break. So 10 minutes. We're gonna come back in 10 minutes.

0:50:34
As we say, kamsahamnida.

0:50:36
But it's actually good if we take a break.

0:50:39
I just usually don't. But we have some wonderful things coming up. First of all, we have to have gratitude for our opportunities. Even if something's difficult, we have to have gratitude for it. So let's say someone wants to go to university, right? They want to learn whatever subject they want to learn. They should be grateful for that hardship because they're going to go through four, five, six years in America, seven years to get that degree. So it's a hardship, it's a difficulty, you pay a lot of money. But it's something that you recognize helps you. So you're grateful for the hardship. That's a good spirit. It's like, I'm going to do something strong, it's going to be hard. But I'm going to do it, and I'm going to do it because it will make me successful and powerful. So that's the way that we face our lives. Not in a way of, oh I don't want to do something difficult, oh it's too hard, or I don't get it, whatever. No, you say, if I want to learn meditation, I'm going to learn meditation. I'm going to learn to meditate, to be powerful, to be strong, to find inner peace, balance, to have a seeing and perspective. So, we do this. Everything that you do that is something that makes you strong and powerful, it's not an easy thing. You want to get a black belt in karate? You think that's just going to be easy? You want to get a degree in a university? No, there's going to be work that you put in. But the work that you put in is strong. So you have to be like, yeah, I'm grateful for my kung fu school, my karate school, my university. I had this one student, she went to UC Berkeley and got a degree in liberal arts. It took her five years and she got tons of like student loans. So she $80,000 of student loan debt. And then I was like, well, did you like, and she's like stressed about it. I'm like, well, did you like what you've learned?

0:53:41
She's like, mm-hmm.

0:53:42
And I'm like, did you like your whole educational experience? And she was like, yes. And I said, so, wow, that's a good thing. Be happy about that. Now learn computer programming and pay off your student loans. Because before that, she was like, I love my education. Thank you, UC Berkeley. I can never repay you. And then once you learn technology, guess what?

0:54:22
It's better.

0:54:23
Okay, so we have to recognize a very powerful truth that the things that we engage in, in our spiritual practice, following the Dharma, these are things that are very powerful to uplift us, make us stronger, happier, brighter, more powerful. That's what all of these teachings are. So if someone is engaged in this school and they go, oh my job is getting worse, you know, like your compassion has to get better, your mindfulness has to be better, you have to be real in your meditation. Meditation, if you do it properly, with really focused meditation, you should see over some time, three or four months, that your meditation gets stronger. There's something brighter. And then when you're intermediate, it should happen every month, you should notice. And advanced, you should notice it every meditation.

0:56:02
Really.

0:56:03
So it takes some cycles. But with your practice, things go up. And you should appreciate your practice. Appreciate any discipline. If your discipline is karate, iaido, any martial arts, appreciate every punch, kick, slice and dice. Really, Like really, like appreciate everything. Have gratitude for everything. These are beautiful, powerful, and amazing arts. We were gonna go to Kyoto. I was gonna take 40 students, I think, to Kyoto, where there's this wonderful fellow Sogo. And Sogo-san is a young Zen practitioner of sword. So he's very into Zen, Zen meditation. He does Zazen, sitting meditation. And he's very strong at sword. He also went to university in America so he speaks English very well. So Ajna was talking to him recently and he's like, hey I want to learn computer programming. He's like, I have a teach. Or Golden State, he can come into Golden State. He loves meditation, he's very powerful. And We help each other. We are grateful to help each other. Whether we're in Bangalore, India, or Paris, France, we help each other. We help each other, you know how? By believing, by practicing bodhicitta. When we all practice bodhicitta together, it creates an energy in this group. We're a group where right now, it used to be a lot of Americans come together and I would get together with a lot of Hungarians and then a few people here and there. But no, when we're together, we're together not only on Zoom, but we're together in the

0:59:20
second attention, we call it, spiritually together.

0:59:25
having a hard time and you direct your mind to spirit, to me as the teacher, to the sangha, there's a powerful spiritual message. And anytime that you direct your mind to that, then you are uplifted.

0:59:46
And when you're uplifted, because you have a gratefulness for that, your energy of gratefulness

0:59:48
uplifts everybody. So what you go through and the Dharma that you experience, it helps you and it helps everyone. And me too. So this is a good thing. Now, when we have gratitude, it supports all of us. And we have a very strong tradition in our school of helping each other. Thank you all very much. of helping each other. Thank you all very much.

1:00:28
Have a good night.

1:00:29
And a good morning. And a good morning.

1:00:30
And a good afternoon.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
