0:00:00
Good to see you all. All right, so we're going to begin with meditation. So we're going to play a little bit of the music.

0:00:31
so you you you you you So So so So so the the the the The. you you the the the the So so So so so so You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone the How did they do it? It's like a theater. Oh, wait, I'm meditating. They won't come in and disturb them. Wait, there is a theater. Wait. You

0:11:20
know that? You go to the opera and you get there five minutes late and you're like, what do you have to do? You have to wait. Because you can't walk into the middle, you're like, singing you know you know Wagner although it would be more interesting so first of all you know we are in what do you call it? The middle of the city. So we always have to be very street smart here, right? When you're going to go back to your car and everything, you have to be very street smart. Be careful. Look around. Be aware. The first rule of self-defense is awareness. Look. See. If you see some bad guys over there, don't go there. The bad guys, they're looking for victims and they're putting out an energy. And what a victim feels that energy and their attention narrows. So the first rule of self-defense is open up your awareness. Look around. There's a bad guy, look at that bad guy. And the bad guy was going to be like, nah, not an easy victim. So they won't mess with you. You got to be careful because just last week in this building, there was a kidnapping. You know where this is going. But it all turned out okay because he woke up. So I wanted to talk to you guys today more about yoga and working with compassion. And, you know, I'll talk about, you know, some more things about working with compassion. They're all good. But I really want to talk about the way, the next step, the evolution for you, or maybe for us. Something we should do together. And I'm going to give an empowerment. I'm going to create an opening, A reality that we choose, that we make happen, that we create, that we experience. So we all create our reality, our mind. What do we focus on? What you focus on the highest, brightest, amazing things, but sometimes we have to focus hard. We have to really push our attention, our willpower, our mind completely into a place so that we transform, so that we're elevated, and so that we elevate others. The reason we would make ourselves strong and have a most powerful and most excellent life is so that, I mean, it's pretty cool, but it's so that we can help others, because So, let's see. So in Buddhism, there's Hinayana Buddhism, and then there's Mahayana Buddhism. You guys know the difference. I mean, everyone does. Just kidding. So, Buddha's whole life, he gave these teachings that were primarily for personal liberation. He was like, I got free, let me tell you how. And that was good. I mean, wouldn't that be cool? Yeah, I mean, that would be enough. But then later on, this idea of compassion came out. Buddha taught about compassion too, and sharing the way and teaching. It just But then there were enlightened teachers that go back, we don't even know their names, but some of them were like Shanti Deva or Atisha, great masters of compassion, where some enlightened teacher in their lineage at some point said, you know what? If you want enlightenment for yourself, well, that's a good thing. And it makes you, you know, what do you do? You sit in a cave, you go to an ashram, you let some Zen master hit you with a stick, and so you go through some stuff. But when you want enlightenment for someone else, for others, for even one other person. It's so much more selfless that you just re-compassion. So this was the beginning of the yoga of compassion. They call it the Maha means big and jnana means, I think, vehicle? I can check with my experts. Yes, vehicle. It's so funny. I trained in Buddhism and yoga and martial arts, this whole program, and it was good. The very strong yogi, really, really good at martial arts, really good at my career, good at meditation. I was in high meditations. And then I was giving some classes, and then one of my student's coworkers came, and he was Indian. his Indian and I gave this talk and then he was just like, everything you said was wrong. I'm all like, just the Indian words, just the words. That's good. You know, yeah, when from a culture of enlightenment. There's a lot of the enlightened structures built into your language and your cultural conditioning. But I live in Donald Trump America. So karma and whatever, you know what karma is? $5,000 and that's what you've got to give yourself tomorrow. Go get some karma. You guys don't think that's funny? Okay. So I'm just really chill. But I'm gonna give you guys a very intense empowerment. Because there's a dream. It's a dream that we can realize. And it's a dream that especially this assembly, this group, this company should realize. Because when we realize this dream, then we can do we could do other cool stuff. That's always been the thing that we're doing. We're like, you know why we're doing this? For other cool stuff. That's the whole pathway to enlightenment. Doing this for other cool stuff until you're like... at the end you're like, who needs other cool stuff anymore anyhow? Okay, well, I mean, I wanted to tell you guys things, like, let's talk about working with compassion. The Hinayana, it means the small path, the path to personal self-liberation, which is still okay, it's not bad. And then the Mahayana is the great path, and that means that there's enlightenment for another. And the greatest ideal is that your inspiration is enlightenment for all beings. Can you feel that? I mean, can you find that in your suffers. I was going to take a shower in the Dharma Villa, and we have this thing called a lot of ants. And I just saw this ant, and I was like, that ant wants to be free. Like anyone. Like even maybe you. Everyone wants to be happy. To be free. Free from suffering. To be happy. To be successful. To thrive in their life. To be spiritually connected. Even an ant. They do. I saw the ant's heart. I don't even know if they have hearts. I saw the ant's nerve. And she had some nerve. So, let's talk about impeccability in yoga. You know, so I got my dragon socks. I'm going to show the camera. Dragon socks. So these are cool socks. I have a collection of dragon socks, but they're from China, you know, not making any, you know, saying about it being bad. I'm going to talk more about China, but there was this one time where, Tara probably remembers, I grew up, you know, speaking Chinese and ever since I was six, all my friends in my in my kung fu school Chinese. So I have a Chinese friend. This is bad. And then it gets worse. But then this one time I actually got fired too many Asian jokes and I was all like what I'm like this is horrible you're ruining my Korea I'm trying to getting a new job see now this is important actually because recently on slack we have this emotional like break channel where we go and have funny things and someone had a joke and it was a it was a Mexican joke and it was like about border crossing kind of thing and for some reason I'll never look at I'm like this slack on my phone and I just like slack and someone made this joke and they're from Hungary and they have no ill will they don't like like a lot of the things that are culturally difficult in in America they don't it's not a thing they don't get it it's not they don't have it it doesn't touch them at all. So they made some Mexican joke and I was like, you can't say that in America. You can't say that in America. So then I pointed that out, even though they didn't have any bad intent. Yeah. So my Asian jokes are clean. So you have to have clean humor. I mean, like, you're ruining my Korea. I mean, that doesn't actually hurt anyone from Korea.

0:26:12
about what humor you spread.

0:26:15
Oh my gosh, yeah. She just knows. She's like, Samara just thought this joke, but he shouldn't tell it, so that's why she said no. No, I don't think bad jokes actually. I'm all, most of my life was a bad joke. All right, so yeah, we're going to talk about a very, very powerful dream. It's considerable, and it's something that this group can achieve. Is this all? Where's the rest of you? There's a bunch of advanced students who aren't here. Okay, that's what's going on. Well, I mean they're cool, I mean there's a dragon on them, but the thing is when the sock, I'm not going to do a demonstration, but the sock, when the sock is off, it's like wow, that's definitely a clear dragon. And then you put the sock on and it kind of opens up, and then it kind of fades out. And I'm like, who wants a faded dragon? No one wants faded dragons. So then, Shori got me these Japanese dragon socks. And you put them on and the dragon still has its integrity. And I'm like, wow, that's a good sock. So, I mean, I still like my Chinese dragon socks, something missing. They printed it when it was not a foot in. And if they had stretched it and done the design, then it would have been better. So you gotta count your fingers on the dragons. So the five-fingered dragon is the symbol of enlightenment. And so we like dragons. Sometimes we ride dragons to work. Did you ever see the never-ending story? Yeah, there's the good luck dragon. Yeah, I have a student who was a good luck dragon in this life. I'm just saying So, Bodhisattvas do big works. They do great works. A lot of times there's stories where they just show up and go, oh, you have a problem? And they just say something and you go, where they show up, you know, that number that story I had about the Tara goes to the island and then she just sings the Dharma and then everyone becomes enlightened. They did big things like that. So big is good. That's why they call it Maha. There's an interesting story about Tara as well. She went to this place. These stories come from another age. So when you get down into Buddhism, a lot of these bodhisattvas and stuff, they're supposed to be from other worlds, they call it lokas, universes in the past. So Tara was in this other universe. It's called Hyperborea, Tara was kind of as well known as Jesus. She was like the Jesus of that whole thing. So there's many stories about her and she had a big influence. And now she's even bubbled up to Tibetan Buddhism. Anyway, so she went to this place, and they make an army and they overthrow the bad demon. But it's like you can only speak about things in very simple ways sometimes when there's a lot of different powers and dimensions. Because how are you going to talk to people? It's like Jesus is hanging out with people. He's like, how do you tell these very simple people very high ideas? Yeah, I got a dad. You like me? You should see my dad. My dad can beat up your dad. It's that thing. So yeah, then she went to a place called the Southern Country, Southern Region, and it was a place that they had heard about the Dharma, but they didn't experience the Dharma. So she goes there, and she sits with the people, and they are open to her. They're like, okay, please, we've heard about you. And she comes, and she says, she starts speaking about the Dharma. Love, purity, and they're like, oh, I don't know. Not so sure about that. And they didn't get it. They don't see it. They're totally caught up in like illusions and ideas and self. So she's teaching and they don't understand it. They're just all, interesting. And then she starts talking about work. She's like, let's get down to what you do. And they were like, okay. So she goes, what do you do? And she points out a guy in the audience and it's like Phil the Plumber. Okay, this is dating me because it was the last election four years ago, big thing, Phil the plumber, was like the regular guy. So she pulls out this one guy from the audience. I mean, EJ, you know Phil the plumber, right? Come on. I mean, that time when you had the draining problem with the sink? Yeah. funny. So she says, hey, what about you? What do you do? And he's like, I break these stones, and then I set them to create the streets. And she says, you have given your work as an offering to the Dharma, because you made a street and a way for me to come into this country to teach the Dharma." And they're all like, oh, okay. And then, still don't get it, so then she's like, how about you over there? And then the guy says, I own the inn that you're staying in. And she's all, well, there it is. Your work has opened a space for me to be here to teach the Dharma. And then he's like, okay, what about you? And it's a gal and she's like, I'm a farmer. And she's like, you feed me. So I could be alive. To help to be here to be nourished and sustained to teach the Dharma. It's really beautiful. But But they didn't understand. They're all, okay, so we do what we do and like it helps you. And what is this Dharma anyway? So they kept on being confused about it. A step in the right direction, they saw something, but they couldn't connect. It didn't make it happen. If compassion doesn't happen, if light doesn't happen, if you're blocked by yourself and I'm talking to you, then you don't see it. You close yourself off and you get all messed up, get all weird. I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to you, then I'm talking to you. Because if you're in that condition, then that's who I'm talking to. Do you know I give corrections sometimes? If you don't listen, then you listen. Then the next day, she showed up with the guy who cuts the stones and lays the streets. She spent the whole day cutting stones and laying streets, making roads. And workers, they were like, what's going on? This exalted person who's supposed to be special, only we don't really understand her, is sitting here doing our job with us. So they started looking, started watching, started seeing. And then in that day, they were liberated, because of working, working with her, working with the Bodhisattva. And the next day, she goes to the inn, and she works with the innkeeper, and then everyone in the inn is liberated. And then the next day, she goes to the farms, and she works with the farmers, and then all the farmers are liberated. And then she does every job in the country and liberates people through the example of selflessness and enlightenment and work. It was me and Mandala. Mandala was the technical person. She was teaching them technology. Because when I was a computer programmer, they didn't have what's this thing they call this? They call it the internet? Yeah, I didn't have an internet. How did we get along? It's really funny. But yeah, so Mandala and I were the examples of yoga. And we did yoga with our students. So Mandala coding software, like crazy. She was like the most intense, amazing developer. And she taught everyone how to do it. And then I was sitting there like me and Dharma are sitting there in Chicago doing sales calls, cold calls. Anyone ever do a cold call? It's the best thing in the world. Yeah, you're like, hi, you want to be my friend? No, I hate you. And then you get that 50 times a day, and you really feel good about yourself. That's how you have to learn detachment. And it's a yoga for strong people. It's an intermediate yoga. So, hey, let's start this tomorrow. We're all doing cold calls. But for anything that you want. Just like, I want to sell honey. I don't have any honey, but probably can get some. Hi, want to buy some honey? What do you mean honey? I heard that. Yeah, cook it up, Chandi. Oh, or the door. So, you know, small things are good too. So Hinayana is not bad. I mean, everything that the Buddha taught is considered Hinayana. How an individual can become enlightened. It's a good thing. So small acts are beautiful acts. So anything that you can do that brings light, compassion, the end of suffering, love, enlightenment, freedom, and also good stuff, like that s'mores frappuccino. You're like, here, someone's all, whoa, I always wanted one of these, because I needed to catch some more pounds. That was funny. So yeah, anything that you do, any moment of compassion in your work and what you do, it makes something happen. It makes some light. It makes you spark. Be aware. Have more light come through you. Be happy. Be shiny. Help someone. See the light go to them. They get happy. That's the funnest thing. Like, giving a gift is always better than receiving it. Ah, Bodhisattvas. Bodhisattva way, re-gifting all the best gifts. It's true. But when you re-gift the best gift, you get the gift. It's like that time when I had a Ferrari. Like, here, here's a Ferrari. I'm all, oh, gave it to someone Just kidding. Of course I have to write. That makes sense. Let's move on. So, Wendy's. So, boy had a grandmother who loved him and she expressed a lot of her love in her food and at least probably Hungarians could understand something like that. Hungarians are really into food. But like, it's like if they like you, they give you food. So, it was a thing. Anyway, so his grandmother, maybe she was a Hungarian, she was feeding him and whenever she fed him, he was so happy, she would make really delicious food for him. He was very, very happy. And then she would say to him, you have to care for people. And you don't just care, you have to make your care in a way that helps. And then he understood that as, I feel caring for my grandmother through her food. So that guided him. food. So that guided him. I mean he quit high school at 15 and went to work in a restaurant. I mean that's a big thing, right? Because he believed that so much. Yeah, high school's way overrated. I mean what do you learn there? Like math and English and history and all that other stuff. It's useless. I'm just kidding. God, you guys are so weird. So he believed it so completely. He felt it. He understood a heart message. And he understood it not just for a grandmother's love for a grandson, but he understood that in a big way. So he was at the restaurant when he was 15, he was cooking. His grandmother died when he was like 12, but she had impressed us on him. And then when he was 15, he was a short order chef or something. And then this old lady comes in, sits at the counter, and he was just like, she reminds me of my grandmother. She just does. And then, let's see, he noticed that she was looking at the menu and that she then went into her purse and looking at the bills and being like, oh, well, I'm going to give her vegetables and mashed potatoes and a slice of apple pie. And he was just 15. And he had to pay for it. I mean, you can do a little bit, but he said he paid for it. And then, when she got the food, she was like, Whoa, I thought I was just going to get chicken, but I got this and this and it makes me happy. Oh, and now pie. And he didn't even go over and say, I He just did it. That's what we gotta do. We gotta give people vegetables with their chicken. Right? I mean, don't you want to live that way? It's so much better. Yeah, so, she was was happy. And that's a good thing. So he helped her. And that's a good thing. And that's what we want to do. In every moment. We want to be looking in our jobs. We need to look help someone. You know, in America, there's a huge amount of people who are miserable in their jobs. And many of them work in offices. A lot of people who do service, even if you have a really tough, busy schedule as a waiter, you kind of don't hate your job. You say it's stressful and it's tiring, but you're doing something very, very, very real, and you get to see that you have someone food. You can see if they like it. But there's people who are called like what do you, middle management, where they're doing jobs where it's like mind-deadening, and they get depressed, and they have full lifetime careers, making good money, so they can't quit, and, ugh, what am I doing with my life? Do something with your life. Bring compassion into whatever you do. If you have a dead middle management job, or a dead job, or any kind of dead job, then wake it up with compassion. Compassion makes everything light up. You could be in the, yeah, like in the most middle-est of middle management, in a job that doesn't mean anything. It's just in a big company, and somehow there was some money for it, and they needed someone there, and you're sitting in the seat, and you're answering the email saying yes. That's your job. And it might be a good job, and it feeds your family, or whatever like that, wake it up. Bring light into it. Bring compassion. Look for at least have compassion for the people you work for, the people that you work with. If you touch customers, maybe you shouldn't touch them. Depends on the business. But you know, like, no, really, look, investigate your life, investigate your situation, your job, your place, and like, see where you can help and bring your heart, bring your compassion. It's just way better. It makes everything just... Remember the story about Jim McGinnis and his heart, this encyclopedia salesman? He went from like, 30 years of just, I pull books around, I go to a door, see if I can sell, you know, it's just like, the hum drum of any hum that has a drum. And then, once he saw, whoa, I sold a book to a guy who changed the world. Because Leahy is considered the heart surgeon of modern heart surgery. I mean, things have gotten better, but he had a significant transformation. And if you see that, like, whoa, whoa, it's huge. It's amazing. And then you're on fire. If you get in touch with what you do and what it means, then you're on fire. I tell really weird jokes. Not bad, but they're weird. Hmm. You know how there's those weird comedians? Like some of them are super funny, but some of them are just... I mean, like, they're all a little quirky. But some of them are just really quirky. So that's like Chi. Chi is the most quirky comedian. Actually, Chi can get up here with me. He could be... In comedy, they have this thing called the straight man. And it's... By the way, you know what I mean? This is where the audience should just give applause. Oh no, no, I'm not saying, no? No applause? So anyway, but he can get up and be like, oh, so what do you mean by that, Samara? And I'm all like, well, I mean, like cows and magical, like there's a moose, that's a magical cow. And then he'll be like, oh yeah, that's called a moose. I'm like, oh, all right. No? Okay. Well, we can work on that sometime. You know, just having a moment of a little bit of laughter, even if it's laughter for a weird reason, it's good. I mean, we have to find ways to be in our life where we're just happy, and I find myself to be very happy. I'm very happy. But I'm also, I know I'm very strange. But I'm also legit. I am. I'm super legit. I'm a meditation master. I'm a martial arts. It's true. Come on. You don't get this? That this is real? It's a real deal? I got a lot of black belts. I've been doing martial arts since I was six. And martial arts is real. And then I had a very successful job yoga career. That was real. I also had a very successful yoga career. I mean, not as successful as some of my students now, but I succeeded in building a yoga company. You get confused. This world has a lot of illusion. This is the world of samsara. When Buddha started teaching, he started having very strong influences, even kings and generals, powerful people. And they were like, I, they're like, Whoa, okay, I've heard of spiritual people, but I'm very happy that I could recognize a spiritual person, a Buddha, an enlightened person. And because they were able to recognize, they were able to grow and learn. But when you start to have negativity and doubt, you cut yourself off. You can be sitting in front of Jesus Christ, Buddha, and the other guy. No, no, no, sorry, the other girl, Tara. And you'll be like, I don't believe them. Sorry, it's your fault, or it's your weirdness, or that's up to you. Look at the people who become enlightened. People believe them. Even if you're not the early adopter. So the fortunate thing is that Buddha taught for many years, and he started getting these enlightened students. And then people started going, oh, whoa, well, it's starting to work. I mean, so Jesus didn't have any enlightened students. Is it halftime or time? It's time? Well, we're going to have to have another meeting. So we're going to have, I'm going to start having, I think, an additional meeting with the intermediate students monthly, because there's more I need to tell you. So I have this one joke. Just kidding. Can we do a meditation? Okay. So we're going to do one last meditation. And this meditation is going to be, this was the meditation I wanted to do a transmission, but I got to do more for you guys. So this, so we did Iceland, so three songs from Iceland, and now we're going to India. And there's like, there's much better pop in there. And then, yeah, Iceland has like meat. But vegetables? No. Okay, so we're gonna go on a little adventure, a little journey. Let's do it.

0:59:20
Just... so the the the the the the the Oh, so I'm a fool for you I'm a fool for you I'm a fool for you I'm a fool for you the the the the the the the the the the the the so Oh, Oh, the the the the the the the the the you the the the You're not alone. So, thank you. You all did very well. I just have a dream.

1:09:19
Who said that? Yeah, that other guy. Well, I've got a better dream. Well, more specific. No, that wasn't... Okay, anyway, so, here's the thing. So we're all doing something really strong and positive together, and we all want to bring to this experience good energy, support for each other. And that's what I'm here for, and that's what you want in your heart too. We're all here doing compassion for each other. So sometimes things are hard, sometimes we get confusions. Sometimes we have a hard time, confusions, and it's okay, that happens. But like, get clear, get back to the basics, see what's going on, stop having... if you have weird thoughts, weird feelings, you need to get back to the basics. You need to be like, I'm meditating, I'm following these basic instructions. Buddha gave very simple teachings. People spin out sometimes. And if they spin out, they'll fall off the path. But if you get back, you can clear the darkness. So sometimes it happens on the path. There's no one who's been enlightened who didn't have a difficulty or a karma or a thought or a feeling that they had to get over. You're like, oh, enlightenment, boom, I got it. I mean, yeah, that happened for those guys. But for us, for most people, we have to work through something. We have to feel something, get through it, understand it. We can't go into a place of negativity. If you go into a place of negativity, it doesn't work. Read any spiritual book. If you're negative, it And we're here for each other. So, I don't want to keep you here. You go to a karate dojo? No, that stuff doesn't work. Go to a judo dojo. Alright, it's time. I got a half time sign, or what's this? Half tank. All right, so we have to ascent, and we have to do a decompression, and then the gals stay. And people who identify themselves as gals, which is... I'm going to stay. And I'm like, oh, if you're going to self-accept a samadhi, you can stay. Okay, that's always a rule. If you're a man or the woman thing, because it doesn't matter. You're like all... But if you're all like, then you'll be back in your body. You're like all... But if you're all like, then you'll be back in your body. Okay, what are you guys still doing here? Thank you so much. It was a joy and a pleasure.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
