0:00:00
Hello.

0:00:06
So with the new teachings for the new students starting on the Bardot's Utol, the Book of the Dead, I'm going to start doing the advanced teachings. And it's going to be also the beginning teachings and the advanced teachings together. So there's going to be some reading of the Bhārata-tātāl, that's going to be for beginners, but it's also going to be for advanced. But there's some very, very powerful advanced teachings about the Bhārata-tātāl. So one of the most amazing powers that Rama had was that he could help you after you die. He can help you going through the bardos and he can help you have a higher incarnation. And he always said that this was his last incarnation in this cycle, in this loka. So he was saying, okay, so I came here to help out, to meet my students from Half-Lives and to get them to move on to the next place. And I call the next place the Hranyaloka. And that comes from the book, The Autobiography of a Yogi. That's where Yukteswar said he went. And Yukteswar went to this higher realm after living here for many incarnations. And so Rama said that this was his last incarnation, that the Kali Yuga was ending, that he was gonna go to a new world that is in a golden age. And he didn't call it the Hiranyaloka. He didn't say what it was called. But in Buddhism, they have for over a thousand years, Pure Land Buddhism, they've called it the Western Paradise. Or in the Bharata Thara, they call it Rose Apple Island. So it basically means, some better place. And it's a place where highly evolved people from this world can go. If you're highly evolved, you'll just naturally reincarnate there. But even if you're pretty hearing. You've got to work it in. So that's where the assistance of a great master like Rama, he was able to really, really help people after death, going through the transition of the bardos to get them to have realizations, teachings, amazing experiences after death and then brought people to a higher incarnation.

0:03:20
So

0:03:22
You know, I learned all these

0:03:24
teachings from Rama. We read the Bharata-Bhagavata. Many times he talked about death a lot. Many considerations in it. And then I was teaching after Rama was gone, and I had a student who passed away, Sergei. Sergei was one of my first students from the meditation center, the SC3s, and then he just mysteriously ended. He just died. And something really intense happened to me. I was in the advanced teachings at the time, and it was after my liberation, and all of a sudden, Rama came to mind. Sorry, computer things. Okay. So, after Rama was gone, he was still teaching. And he would teach extremely powerfully in dreams and in the second attention. And at first I didn't know what was going on. I would just sit there and think about Rama and he would be very present in my mind. And then I would just know something, some truth about the universe. And I'm like, wow. So it just kind of happened. Then I ended up talking to Kundalini. She was all, yeah, man, Rama's still around teaching. And then all of a sudden I knew all of these very subtle things about the bardos. And I started reading the book Four, but it was after Sergei's death, because there was something I had to do. Like Rama was like, you need to know this, you have to do something. And then I was able to do something in the Bardo's, like the Bardo blessing for Sergei. And I wasn't able to do it before, but with his death and me being a teacher, I was given this teaching by Rob. And from then on, I started to know more and become more and more and more and more and more aware. And now I'd have to say I'm a bardo master because I know a lot, in a little small part of the bardo. There's like, I know a lot for a little small part. The Sifta Bardo, the other bardos, I could add some support and help.

0:06:31
So yeah, I know some parts.

0:06:35
And this is what I can teach.

0:06:36
I can teach some parts really well. So I'm going to start doing the advanced teachings of what I know about the bardos. And Padmasambhava, when he's talking about it, and Rama, they know the full thing. And the bardos are very, very big, but I know a successful way to help beings. And I can teach you to do that as well. You'll learn more about it as we go through it. Now for me it happened in five realizations or five downloads from Rama. And so I'm going to give you the first of the Shambhala Pocket. Except for, I don't think we're gonna read it. I think we're just gonna listen to, who's that guy? Richard here, reading it.

0:07:48
He does a good job.

0:07:48
Cause I ain't gonna read it. So, we're just gonna listen to it together, seated. Now also with the beginning students. So this is where you guys are going to start going very deep into it after this transmission, because you've read it before, but the dimensions from the transmission, it really opens up and you start to understand them. You know, if you're so inclined, but when you get the transmissions, the advanced transmissions, it doesn't mean you are a master at it. It means that you can work on it. So Savitri and Kamala have gotten these transmissions and they worked on it for years. And they wrote books and they created, you know, all sorts of practices and things so they actually Put the tone Allen so if you if you want to be a master of you know of Master of death and the bardos to actually be able to help someone it takes a lot of work It takes a lot of work. It takes you have to know it you have to understand it You have to feel it you have to be able to understand every single dimension of the bar I thought all that took me a lot a lot of work. There's a high-level, simple blessing, but to be able to do what Kabbalah and Savitri did today, which was to properly do the whole Bharata Thara, all the way from here to the next incarnation, to the summit, through the third bardo, the primal states of consciousness. It's intense. It takes a lot of tone out, and it takes a definite, strong focus of the second attention. And if you want to learn it, the transmissions give you the keys if you want to go out and try to drive the car. And if it's something that's interesting to you, then you'll do it. It was something very interesting to me, because I had a student who died. So I was like, oh, I've got to do something. I've got to do something. I've got to do my best. And that's where this opportunity came about. My teacher, Crate Master. And when the need was there and I was ready for it, I got the transmission and I did the work. So for you, I'm going to give you the transmissions. It's a lot. There's five of them. There's five realizations that I learned over the times to be able to do this, and also be able to teach it. And it's not fake. It's a really real thing. Then you can learn it. All right. So we're going to do one song meditation, focus on the third eye. And we'll do an open-eye meditation. You just look towards me. You don't have to do anything. You don't even have to stop. But, um, you have to align yourself with the intention to learn this most noble, this most noble yoga. That's all. OK, sit up nice and straight. Focus on the third eye. Let's begin.

0:12:09
so so so so so the the the so so Thank you. So it's considered to be good to have these transmissions and any knowledge of the Bardo's, at least for yourself. So, you know, you've read the Bardo's Thought All, you're going to read it again.

0:14:17
It's going to happen. And at least for yourself, then, these transmissions help you to have more awareness, more ability, as a personal yogi going into the intermediate states. So experiencing death, you have a lot more power for awareness Now to be able to help somebody else takes extreme mastery So these transmissions at least are going to help you in a good way, right? You'll be able to slip But to be able to save someone You have to be the lifeguard you have to be a strong summer And that takes a lot of mastery. And if you feel like it, do it. But like, you know, for me it took a lot, a lot of focus. You know, for Savitri, she had What Matters Now, a website, right? Hospice Journey, Hospice Volunteer, coming from that. She became a clergy. She went to the Paya Zen training for people who are helping people in palliative care and the end of life. So she's a lot of work and it takes doing a lot of work. It takes tremendous to an owl if you want to be able to do this, to help someone. And also, it'll help you, too. But to be a helper takes mastery. And I have to say that Savitri and Kamala today, they did a perfect job. It was amazing. I was there, going, oh, cool, I don't have to do it. But they did a perfect job. Because they've done this for years. They've done a lot of work, a lot of yoga on this. And yeah, Kamala. Kamala just kind of thing. No, really, like in the Guatemalan culture, where her mother was going there a lot for the studies in the university, and then Kamala was identified as a magical person. So sometimes there could be a shaman or something like that, right? And then there's another person who's, you know, it's a midwife. It's someone who helps a woman give birth. But in that culture, it's a very magical thing to help someone bring life into the world, which is actually a very magical thing. It's just that we're just all, oh, just go to the hospital, get a C-section. But anyway, it's actually a powerful thing, the act of birth, it's their job, bringing life into this world. So she was identified as that magical being to do that. One of the magical cast of people. And then she also wrote, she was involved in What Matters Now and Toss This Journey and she also wrote In Latent Pregnancy, which is very clever. And we do these Yama retreats, usually once a year. And it's funny, because we would go down to Big Sur and we would go to this really beautiful house and this really beautiful place, gorgeous, amazing energy. And then the one thing about it is the master bedroom is haunted. And so we go there and the first time we went there they were like, Simba you can have the master bedroom and we'll share the smaller bedroom." And so I got down there and I was just like, there's a ghost here. And I was like, get out of here. And then I had to negotiate with him because he wouldn't leave. I'm like, you need to go over, you could stay over there, but don't get over here. And if you wake me up, I'm going to be very angry. I'm like, don't mess with me while I'm sleeping. Anyway, so it was really funny. So I dealt with it the first time. And the second time we went there, I was like, you know what, you guys take the master bedroom.

0:21:49
I said, please.

0:21:52
I'll take the small bedroom. And then they were like, we thought someone was breaking in last night. And then, they're like, there was like, it was weird, there was something, like there was a person there. And then, Sofiechi's all, do you think it was a ghost? And I'm like, no. Okay, that was all he had, the ghost. And then, Bodhi the dog was there. So when they went to sleep the next night, Bode was like,

0:22:30
what's going on?

0:22:32
And he was all bothering the ghost. And then the ghost came up to the kitchen and was rattling all these pots and pans and stuff because Bode bothered him. Bode was all, I'm not going to let you mess around. He was running his adventures with ghosts. So that's funny, because that's where we went three or four times for our retreats. And it's just a beautiful place, just an amazing place of power and a beautiful home. So I was there, and I was looking at the ghost. And I was like, this guy, I think, built this house. Because I could see him wearing tools. And I'm like, oh, so he built this house and he's like, this is my house. It was really funny. Yeah, it was your house, but not anymore. And so, it's just kind of

0:23:26
interesting.

0:23:27
Then I think on our last retreat there, Vayuna came with us and she was working on the Enlightened pregnancy book with Kamala. And so I was like, okay, you guys got to sleep down there. I was like, I'll sleep on the couch or something when I grow up. I don't like getting woken up by ghosts. It's hard to sleep. And then, yeah, Vayuna was like, I told her there's a ghost there, and she's like, really? Okay, I'm like, I think it's the guy who built the house. And then she did some research, and she found out, she found little newspaper articles of this guy, I forgot what his name was, but he was an electrician and a handyman, and he was like, sold his services in the fixer area. And she found out his name and everything. And then we went down and we're all, hey, I think his name is Tom or something. Well, hey Tom, go into the light. Don't you want to leave? And he's all, you want to stay? You go, what are you going to do?

0:24:45
People get very attached.

0:24:47
So, someone who is a ghost is a person who died in the second bardo, and they're attached to something, or they desire something, so they remain, or they're pissed off. And so they have some, they're really trying to grab onto this physical world. And this guy, Tom, not a bad guy, but he just really loved his house. It was very important to him. He built it with his own hands. And so he was like, in my face, I'm not giving it up. And so even when we said, hey, you know, you can go into the light, go on to the third Bardo. And he was like, I'll,

0:25:26
I'm like,

0:25:28
that's cool. Now, unfortunately, that place is no longer a rentable property. Someone else bought it and it's just their private property. They probably don't even notice there's a ghost there. Because he's not a bad guy. So working with ghosts, people in the second Bardo, and knowing all about the third Bardo, We did a very good Buddha family meditation and that does it in a very, very beautiful

0:26:15
way.

0:26:16
But then again, there's a lot in there. The really interesting time. And then you get into the Siddha Bhārata, becoming fascinating, very interesting. That's the place where I have lots of skills. So there's just so many fascinating things, but you have to you have to become aware of what those dimensions are. So yeah, I guess you know over the weeks where we have classes I'll do the transmissions until we're done. And with the new students, we're going to be doing some actual readings and stuff like that. And then it'll be up to you if you want to do more.

0:27:00
Cheers. Enlightenment. Cheers. Cheers.

0:27:04
OK, so thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
