0:00:00
Hello! Alright, so today we're going to continue the teachings. But we'll begin with meditation. So we're going to sit for one song. We're going to focus on the heart. Sit up nice and

0:00:21
And let's keep it.

0:00:23
so so Oh so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so You Very nice. So, yesterday was a great time of power.

0:04:52
And if you followed the teachings,

0:04:56
you made a shift.

0:05:00
A shift in attention and spirit. So in the time of the warrior, we meet that time with the resolve in our hearts, in our minds, in our spirit. The resolve to be a warrior. It's facing hardship and difficulty, and to be victorious. So this is what we must do. I remember I was going to a karate dojo in New York. I was training there. And there was this 12-year-old kid who came with his dad. His dad was a black belt and he was coming to the dojo because, you know, his dad wanted him to. And he was training. He was coming. And he, you know, he was kicking, punching, just kind of going through the routine of learning. And then one day he came into the dojo with a black eye. And I asked him what happened? And he's like, I was just attacked at school. Some kid just attacked him for what I don't know what reason. He got beat up. And then he then he started training. So there's practicing martial arts, and then there's what I call training. And I trained martial arts. And I think this kid went from practicing martial arts to training martial arts. All of a sudden, he was serious. You see it in his eyes, and you can see it in his technique. He became very focused and became a good martial artist because he was facing reality. He was like facing what was happening, the challenge, which is, yeah man, you might go to school and someone might beat you up. Unless you have karate.

0:07:41
So this is what you learn. You learn to develop skills to deal with life.

0:07:47
This is what you learn on the path.

0:07:49
Some people say,

0:07:51
you know, what do I do? You know, what do I do? You know, my career, my job. It might, you know, like the economy might go down, or, you know, like I'm working at a place where I have to be close to customers and coworkers and increases my coronavirus ability, you know. So it's like, what do you do? Get a better job, learn technology, you can work from home things like that? What do you do if someone's trying to hurt you?

0:08:31
Get a black belt

0:08:33
Learn jiu-jitsu

0:08:35
So that you can defend yourself be excellent and powerful Don't be a victim Warriors are not victims Warriors are victorious. And we're victorious because we do smart things and we develop ourselves in smart and powerful ways. So if you're sitting there complaining about your career because you didn't develop it and you didn't develop a smart one, this is the teachings. These It's like, these are teachings that get you ahead. You can do whatever you want, and you can suffer it. But these teachings help you to get ahead. Just like the martial arts, I can teach you karate or jiu-jitsu, and then someone will try to attack you, and you'll be able to do something about it. Versus if you don't, you'll just get victimized.

0:09:33
You'll be weak.

0:09:34
So, the teachings are teachings that are powerful. Teachings that help you. But it takes work to do. To get a black belt in Jiu Jitsu or Karate, it takes work. But you're like, oh, I didn't do it, I didn't want to do it. It's hard. Or whatever, right? Then you're going to be a victim. So you have to meet, you have to understand what's going on. You need to know what time it is. It's the time, time of the warrior. And that means that you have to be a warrior if you're gonna develop your skills. Your career better be strong. If your career's not strong, you better do tech. And you better like wake up with a black eye and realize what's going on. And so in this school we have amazing disciplines that help you with your life to deal with stuff. Like job livelihood and everything is a very big thing. It's part of Buddha's teachings, right? Livelihood. And for the Western world, it's very big. I guess the Eastern world too, actually, nowadays. It determines so much in your life. So that's why I taught for a year or more about job yoga. It's a very powerful influence on your life, how you work, and the success of your work? So, work is important. You have to develop yourself. And the skills that we're in. And we have compassion and mindfulness. So we have many dimensions of study, and these dimensions are powerful, and they help you. But you have to wake up to the world. Before you get a black eye, maybe you need to look around and say, wow, people are getting black eyes. I don't want to get one. Maybe I'll learn jujitsu. Maybe I'll learn computer programming. You don't have to get hit to see what's going on. You can learn from being aware. So warrior sees what time it is. What time is it? It's time to start being serious. It's time to get yourself together. It's time to be, what time is it? It's time to stop being, what do we call it? A schlep? Lazy? Sloppy? Wushy-washy person, wake up. Wake up to what's happening. This is a tough time. This is a tough world. This is a strange parallel universe. It's the worst episode of Black Mirror and the Twilight Zone all at the same time. It's true, this is a bizarre thing that's happening, but welcome to Maya and Samsara. But whatever dream you're in, whatever illusion, whatever bad karma you have, then the lift you out of it. You bring nobility and light and compassion and enlightenment, right? To whatever we have to face, whatever people go through.

0:13:53
It was...

0:13:55
What was the fourth version? Oh, it was Auschwitz.

0:13:58
Auschwitz, where there was a concentration camp.

0:14:03
Where the Jews were being systematically killed. And... For the people who were living for a while, they had very little food, they were just starving and just barely getting by. But some people, there were some that would come and, I don't know, tell jokes or religious stories, share something that they could share that brought levity. And if we're all gonna die, let's die like that. No, that's a good way to die. Helping and sharing, bringing light and spirit. So we're in a world that's crazy, crazy, difficult times, like strange. But these are times where if you bring light to it, it helps. That's compassion. So a warrior faces the greatest difficulties, hardest times, most difficult times, and brings light, levity, brightness. And we have, fortunately, a school of skillful means. Skillful means. That means that we have capabilities to deal with this world. What's happening now is hard and it's difficult. But if you follow the teachings and the structures in this school, just like I've been a martial arts teacher for a long time and a martial artist. And guess what? Self-defense didn't get different from 20 years ago to today. It's the same. And an enlightenment 20 years ago or today or when Buddha was there and Krishna was there, right? It's the same. It takes work and it deals with the situation and whatever the situation is. I could be in New York in 1988, someone tries to stab me with a knife and I can go, watcha talkin'? And I could be walking down the street in Pacifica, and someone tried to stab me with a knife, and I could be in a battle of Kurukshetra with Krishna, and I could meditate and go watch a chop. Right? So, we have skillful means that we develop here, just like martial arts, meditation is meditation. very classic, fundamental, primal teachings of how to get out of suffering. And some of them are very modern for learning technology.

0:18:18
But this is right livelihood.

0:18:20
Right livelihood. But you've got to wake up to what's going on. You've got to be like that 12-year-old kid who got punched in the black eye. And then he was like, I'm serious. The black eye was of the modern time and his seriousness was of powerful structures of that would get him past that suffering. That's what we gotta do. The study gives you many options and opportunities to develop very strong spiritual structures and powerful structures to deal with the world. Career, martial arts, mindfulness, many structures. Now, when you face the world and the hardships

0:19:23
that are here right now, you face it with the resolve of the warrior.

0:19:27
As bad as it is and as bad as it's going to get, and the next six months is going to get, but as bad as it's going to get, you can be bright, you can be strong, you can be successful, But you have to be a warrior, a spiritual warrior. You have to face, you have to be awake, see what's going on, hopefully without getting a black eye first. And you have to work, do the things, do compassion, do mindfulness, do right livelihood. If you don't have a strong career, a lot of my students are learning tech. Do tech.

0:20:33
You have to be impeccable.

0:20:35
Impeccability is the crux of the warrior. Impeccability is the hallmark of a warrior. A warrior must, a spiritual warrior must be impeccable. Impeccability. Pecking. Something about pecking or impecking. Now you have to really be, you and focus into doing your life in a strong, connected way. You can't be a wishy-washy, spaced out Californian. That was me when I was a first student. I'm like, I was a spaced out little happy guy and now I'm a, it's true. I used to daydream. There's no time for daydreaming. Dreaming is not even good anymore. No more dreaming. So, um, no, this is a time where you have to be solid. It can't be flaky. It can't be wishy-washy. You have to really really have strong attention. It has to be like the Shaolin, Shaolin Temple. And if you look at the Shaolin monks, even today, but back then as well, they have a very strong lineage of a consistent focus on impeccability. Shaolin monks can do crazy stuff. And I mean, really, you can YouTube this they do crazy things that are extremely intense physically They can stand on wooden poles Have balance they can get hit in special places And be fine with it. They can get you know all sorts of swords and spears and all sorts of things where they can deflect them, all sorts of things. They have many, many, many skills. I remember when I was young, maybe 16, 17, I saw a movie about, a special movie that my sifu, my kung fu teacher, found somehow from his connections about the abbot of the Shaolin Temple. And this abbot was amazing. He could take two fingers. So he could balance himself and had the strength to just stand on two fingers. So he had this power of two fingers. And then so he would do that and you're like, whoa, most people can't do that. And then there was a big, like a punching bag, it's filled with sand. And then he goes over to the punching bag, and this guy's like 80 years old. And he goes over and he goes to the punching bag, puts a hole in it, and the sand starts leaking out. Those two fingers could kill you.

0:24:41
Peace.

0:24:42
So, that's impeccability. Impeccability develops power. Power. Somehow this guy developed power

0:24:44
Dharma brought Bodhidharma, brought to the Shaolin temple, a teaching of impeccability that lasted for a thousand years and still is there. Shaolin is still great and impeccable and extremely powerful and successful. So Bodhidharma, what he brought to the Shaolin Temple, that's the real deal. An enlightened teacher created enlightened Kung Fu and it's still extremely strong today. Shaolin. We're Shaolin, we do some martial arts. I'll put some of my good black belts against them. I'm pretty sure we'll win. But we also do computer programming So the world we live in. Now the current abbot of the Shaolin Monastery, he's very modern. So he actually is like a good Kung Fu guy and he's into like being into movies. He helps with lots of different things. oriented, which is also kind of cool. Okay, so, but it's very important to have a recognition of reality and to see something like the Shaolin. And the Shaolin, they dealt with the reality that they were in, the hardships and the times in a very Buddhist way. It was a very different way. A way that's very unusual, but it's real. And the impeccability of their work is still viable today. I mean, you could Google it, whatever. You can see Shaolin. And Shaolin is martial arts, but it came from an enlightened master, Bodhidharma, the 27th lineage holder after Buddha. And the founder of Zen Buddhism. This was a person at a time that saw it was the time of the warrior. To be able to fool Buddhist monks into doing martial arts, it's great. And that's what had to happen. That's how the monks were able to become warriors. They went from being little monks to warriors.

0:28:33
That's impeccability.

0:28:34
I went with Ken Jin and some students, some other students too, this wonderful, beautiful Chinese dancing performance.

0:28:54
What's it called?

0:28:58
Shen Yun? Shen Yun. And it was so amazing, so beautiful. So it's kind of traditional Chinese dance. It's like Chinese ballet. And, but man, they're better than ballet, because they they just fly through the air and do some amazing, wonderful, like amazing acts. Choreography, amazing dancers. So they are very excellent, amazing dancers. They can pull off perfect feats of almost acrobatic dancing or synchronistic dancing, just everything is so amazing, so beautiful. Now a very strong part of their core comes from a religious belief, a spiritual belief, in Falun Gong and it's something that's very popular and also persecuted in China but this this this group has a powerful ability to do many dance troops and they're successful across the US in promoting themselves, in being excellent, and you know, in making money as dancers. And they have amazing skill, amazing ability. And they have a spiritual belief, Falun Gong, which is a lot of things are meditative and breathing and mantras. It's all good spirituality. level of ability, of perfection in their dance, that impeccability, that is impressive. And they are successful and they have a strong livelihood because of their ability and success. I remember when we were watching them, there was this one guy who would like, kind of like run and that he would flip in the air and he would just fly. He had this he had a sit-up. Just hang in the air and then So I was there with lots of students. We were like when that guy would jump and just do that back flip and fly. You're like Wow That's all that's now he's as good or maybe almost as good as Michael Jordan. Now Michael Jordan has the ability to fly a little bit. They may choose after him. Air Jordan. It's true. Some people have a little bit. And this fun guy, wow, that guy, that dancer would also fly. description. Shaolin, martial arts, power, the dancers, and a very strong spiritual focus Hong Kong would dance with great impeccable is important. And Bodhidharma, when he was teaching the Shaolin monks, he said, you have to be impeccable in mind. And that means that you can stop thought, and that's the most important thing, stop thought, and be totally connected with the universe. And then you also have to be impeccable in character, we call that. And character is your knowledge and how to relate to people. You have to have excellence in that regard. And then he also said you have to have excellence and that's So, excellence is not just in the mind. Excellence is in all areas of your life. If you're a black belt, if you're a top technologist, if you're an advanced meditator, you're okay.

0:35:14
Right?

0:35:15
And according to Bodhidharma, you know, you got to be smart in your understanding the teachings. You got to be smart in being able to stop thought. You got to be smart in Kung Fu. and saved their temple and brought beings to enlightenment and is still extremely powerful today. So, impeccability is important. You've got to be impeccable in all things. So, we're like, I'm just not impeccable. I'm impeccable.

0:36:00
Impeccable.

0:36:01
We have to be impeccable in all things. Now, I got a report from our Golden State classes, and the great majority of people are doing very well. Very well. It's great. So if you've passed the course, you're on the right path. But the reason I give you guys a hard time is because I'm trying to help the people who are doing the worst. I want the person who is doing the worst to do the best. I'm talking to the people who have the hardest time. So maybe most of my students, they're like, you're preaching to the choir. I'm like, I totally get what you're saying. But I'm like, my teachings in this solstice are to the people who have the hardest time. I mean, I'm very authentic that way so that people who are having the highest, most powerful times they feel something that carries them. But I'm like, the people who are having the hardest times, that's who I'm talking to. If you can lift up, if you can follow these teachings, I mean, I will be the same in a

0:37:47
dojo.

0:37:48
In the dojo. Here's the punch, here's how it's gonna work. I have a lot of awareness and a lot of capability and I'm gonna teach you and that's what I'm doing. And in a dojo, if I'm teaching some go-tards. Sorry, that's not right. We call it a ban-off. That's the way to say it. Politically correct. Someone's speaking, you know, they're just off and they're not doing well. And I go, hey, here's how to do it. And they go, oh, okay. They'll wake up. And then the other advanced belts see that too. We bring ourselves up from the bottom, not from the top. We're not elitists. Everyone in this school, we are at a foundation of truth together. If you're sad, if you're messed up, this school is where we all bring it up from. And there's some fantastically amazing superstars. And guess what they do? In their heart and in their minds, they... and their power, just as a model, they are here to lift you up. Great yogis. We have great yogis. Just like we have great martial artists. We have yogis who have done amazing things. And we have martial artists who have got many black belts. And we look at those martial artists, we look at those black belts and we say, wow, that's what can come out of this school. I'm having a hard time, well then I need to look to that. I need to have the inspiration of those who have succeeded and they're great. They are great. And look in martial arts. Great martial artists. So you have to be strong, be focused, and wake up. And be a warrior. Look at the warriors around you, the great ones, succeeding warriors, and also your friends. Anyone who's still here, the warrior. Anyone who's going to be here until December is a warrior and that might be you. However, I got a report that there was 13 people who didn't even complete their assignment in the tech class and I would say wake up because look at the people here the majority of my students look at the your meditation teachers all of them, are extremely strong in their careers in technology. And if you failed, or if you didn't even complete the final assignment, there's something wrong. And you need to wake up. You need to do something. You need to change.

0:42:28
Because you are failing,

0:42:30
and you're going down the wrong way. It's gonna be over and done with you. You're not gonna be a strong person. You're gonna be a failure and weak. Sorry, it's true. You committed yourself to a study and you failed at it. Didn't even do it. 13 of you. This is not what we do. This is a school. You come into my dojo and you're gonna go, oh whatever, and I will smack you in your face. I will! Because I want you to wake up. Wake up! See what's going on. I'm gonna give you the black eye. And actually, I should. I should invite you here and I'm gonna be social distancing to this. Wake up. Wake the fuck up. You joined the school for a reason. You understood to do this teaching to help you. You did a bad job. A bad job. Not impeccable. You did a bad job. Now, I did a bad job too. In the beginning. Because I was so stuck in my hardships and my difficulties. Like you. So I'm calling to you in my heart, because I did a bad job, too. I mean, I was stuck. I was bad at math. I flunked math courses in high school. I didn't think I was a good computer person. I thought I was bad. But my teacher said, you can do it. Just do it. You can do it. So I went to the Computer Learning Center. It was a six course certificate program to learn computers, computer programming. And I went there and I flunked out of it. I tried really hard as much as I could in my mind but I didn't learn a lot. I was very diminished in my thinking and my ability at the time in the moment. So if that's where you are, that's why you failed the course, that's why you didn't even complete the course? I understand. I paid so much money in grants and student loans to go to that course. So it means a lot. It meant a lot. I tried, but I failed. Now here's the thing, I didn't fail. That was a stepping stone. So if you failed, it's not a failure, but it's a time to wake up. So for me, my teacher moved us to New York and when I moved after that failure to New York my only option was I was working as a waiter in a marginal diner kind of restaurant making minimum wage plus tips, which was great, enough to just barely get by. And then I put my mind into technology and then I wasn't going to be unimpactful. I was like, well, when I see what's going on, I gotta be real, I gotta be strong, I gotta be stronger. And I learned technology. And the places in my mind where I was just wishy-washy, I was like, I had breakthroughs and I became a great programmer. And then I became a programmer and I left working at, you know, Friendly's and Pizza Hut. And then I, uh, I worked on Wall Street. And from there, my career grew. So I had hardship. So if you're a flunker or a failure or not sure upper, it's time to wake up. I was that as well. And then I became very successful. If you try, and you follow, and you do, you come into my dojo, I will teach you how to fight. If you come into my dojo, don't give up. Keep going. If everything seems impossible, possible, then see a bigger vision. It's possible. You can be successful. You can be great. You can be great again. No, you can. You can be great. You can't just go into, what do we call it, like self-pity and self-indulgence.

0:48:29
But me, I'm sad. But me, I can't do it. All sorts of reasons of I can't do it,

0:48:35
I can't do it, I can't do it, I can't do it. Don't listen to that. You can do it. You can succeed. Absolutely, for sure. I had this one student, so she comes over to me and she's like, I can't be a computer programmer, Simbar. I'm like, why? She's like, well, I didn't go to university, I didn't do this, people call stupid and all these reasons and my dad used to look at me like this and all sorts of reasons. She was like 21 reasons. And then I said, all right, so those are the reasons how you can't. So there's a whole bunch of reasons how you can't do it, but then how will, not just can, how will it get

0:50:08
done?

0:50:09
Not just opportunity, but destiny. How will it get done? Because I said, absolutely, for 100%, I'm sure. You're great and successful. So how's that going to happen with all this can't?" And she was like, Huh? I don't know. Now she's a great computer programmer, working for a great company, making a lot of money, very successful. And I knew that she would be that. I saw it in her You don't see that in yourself when you're just looking at the small picture You're looking at all the hardships and difficulties right you don't see that but I saw And she's sitting there saying can't can't can't won't don't won't moaned. More negative things. I'm like, you're making up negative things. There's no such thing as moaned. Okay. So, then I said, well, if all of us can't, then how will? And then she thought about it, and she was like, well, if I will, if it's gonna happen, then here's how it's gonna happen. I'm gonna get over this problem. I'm gonna get over that thing. I'm gonna push past it. If I will, if I will achieve it, then here's the story of my achievement. If I'm thinking can't, in the world of pity, then there's no end. I wanted to tell this wonderful story about turtle eggs. And this is a story of how to get over the impossible. So this is just a little story of Li Shan, this great warrior, great general, and student of the art of war, like a heart student. In his heart was this Taoist teaching, the art of war. At one time, Li Shen had an army of 10,000 to defeat an army of 1,000. But they were in a fort, a base, you know, a giant fort with giant walls. Actually they had three walls. The first wall, you get through that, and then they're just shooting you with arrows. And then you get through the second wall, and they're shooting you with arrows. And then you put your ladders on the third wall, and then they're just like, you're all dead. So in the art of war, one of the massive teachings is don't lay siege to a fort or a city. It's the worst level of war. You're going to lose the most. So he was like, I've got 10,000 against 1,000, but if we try to breach their three walls, I'm going to lose everything. We're not going to win. And then he said, okay, so that's the worst way. And he said, what's the best way? And the best way was a teaching that said, attack where your enemy doesn't expect it. So he's sitting there looking at this fort with these walls that his king says, his emperor says, take it, we have to destroy it, we have to win. This is the battle, and he's like, according to the art of war, this is very difficult. I can't just lay siege to this fort. I have a bigger force, but they have, I mean, the art of war says don't do it and then he's like oh wait but there's another teaching

0:54:54
it's the teaching of the turtle eggs

0:54:56
don't

0:54:56
don't be the force that is visible. Attack the enemy where they don't see it. This is the teaching. Attack the enemy where they don't see it. Okay, so, this is why I say turtle eggs. So, he comes with his 10,000 army and he looks at this giant, like, fort, and they're like super strong and super defended against every force. And he's like, all right, it's not going to work. So he takes his army back, and they go, yep, you knew you couldn't beat us. And they were right. He couldn't beat them. Force to force wouldn't work. And then, you know what he did? It was really great. He had a bunch of turtle eggs. Have you ever had a turtle egg? Well, at the time, in China, and maybe still, I don't know, because I haven't had a turtle egg, but it was a delicacy. And so there was a thousand men in that fortress. And he somehow ordered and found two thousand turtle eggs. a little pinprick of poison in each one. And then they got one of their conspire-y people, spy or something, to bring, you know, when there was no army around, they would have commerce. And then some guy comes in with a bunch of turtle eggs sound good. And he sold it to them at a really cheap price. And then they all ate the turtle eggs, but the poisoned turtle.

0:57:24
And the next day,

0:57:26
Li Shan sent 10 soldiers with ladders to climb over the ladder and bring the ladder over. And the next wall, and the next wall, and then open up the main gate. And then the army moves in, and everyone has a stomachache, so they're gonna fight. They didn't die, it wasn't that poisonous. It was just, they had a stomachache. And they were like, I wanna fight you, but I can't because I'm a spammer king. Okay, so um...

0:58:04
Even if things are impossible, they're possible. Look at your life.

0:58:10
It's like, well it's impossible for me to be successful because of this or that. No, it's possible. Completely possible. I can't because of this and that. How can you? How will you? Because you have to will success. You have to will success. Being great, being It's not a yin or yang, it's how you direct your mind. How you're going to do it. If you're a warrior, you're going to be successful. If you're going to be enlightened, you're going to be enlightened. Question is how? What's the story? Once you have your mind focused on success, you'll be successful. And then all the things that come up and down and wish and wash, the force that you have to take and the balance you have to win and the self that you have to come over and the negative thoughts that you've got to get through and the sadnesses and the personal histories, you get it? Those are all, what are the stories succeeding through that. So we're going to have a final meditation for our Solstice adventures and it's going to be a meditation of seeing the way. So now we're in the new moon. So we let go of everything yesterday and the new moon passed the eclipse, the solstice, and all this crazy stuff. The new moon is What was he? He was a new hope. That's what they called him. It's a hope. It's a new opportunity. There's in the new moon a little, even in this crazy world, the new moon is the new So this is going to be a scene into that new opportunity. And you know Luke Skywalker came from a messed up world. He was weak, poor, a lot of work, a lot of struggle. And then he became a Jedi. And then he taught Yoda how to do that.

1:01:04
Oh Yoda time.

1:01:06
Yoda how to do that, only Yoda can. Anyway, so sit up right and straight. We're going to do an open eye meditation. And this is the meditation of the new moon, new opportunity. how difficult it is, knowing that you have to be impeccable. But also knowing that there's hope, opportunity, that you can do really well, that everything can work out.

1:01:42
You can be enlightened, you can be successful,

1:01:44
even in this crazy world.

1:02:02
So sit up nice and straight.

1:02:03
We're gonna bring the focus to the third eye and meditate just for one song.

1:02:09
Let's begin.

1:02:10
♪♪♪

1:02:15
So, so so you All right, wonderful.

1:06:55
It is the time to warrior. Wake up. Do the work. Be strong. Be a warrior. Be successful. This is the teaching of this time. So I'll say thank you. So I'll say thank you.

1:07:15
So, I'll say thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
