0:00:00
So, when we're helping each other, I know a lot of the Californians are very wishy-washy. You guys are. You're just very self-centered and stuff, but the Europeans are much more And I want the Californians to like, kind of stop being so, I don't know, what do we call it, millennial? Or at, you know, this period, like, try to figure stuff out in a bigger perspective. view of life in reality and the great opportunities of our school. So I would like to share with you some stories and these are stories of advanced students, advanced teachers, and in their teachings, just of their experience, what happened to them in their life, they're just going to share with that they were able to prosper, to get higher, to get outside of their karma and their dissatisfactions with life, to be stronger and brighter. So what we're going to do now is a really wonderful thing. Tuki, Ra, and Leela share just their experiences— where they came from, what they were able to connect with in the sangha, and where it brought them. very important experience or understanding of gratitude because of their real-life experiences. So we're going to switch over now to Tuki, then we're going to go to Bra, and then we're going to go to Leela, and then we'll come back to me and I'll be all like, bing. But please listen and pay attention and understand with an open heart and an understanding of, yeah, gratefulness. Like, where's the gratitude in their teachings. Because these are advanced students, advanced teachers, and what they're going to be sharing with you is something very profound of their own life experience and sharing with you their gratitude. So we're going to switch over to Chizuki now.

0:03:40
I'll be back.

0:03:41
Hello. Sorry. Hello. Hello, can you hear me? Oh, I can see myself now. Okay, so, hello everyone.

0:04:01
My name is Stuky, if you don't know me. And I'm very grateful for this opportunity today to share my story with you. And so I'm originally from Hungary and I met someone about six years ago and then I became his student and I moved to the US a few years later. And eventually when you think about a hero's story, it always starts with struggle and suffering. So, at one point in my life, I really got to this point that I was so much deeply in struggle. I was just stuck in career and stuck in relationships and I really wanted to get away out of it. And I tried so many things. I tried Christianity, I tried different, like I even tried guided meditations, I tried yoga and visualization techniques and manifesting your positive reality. And nothing really seemed to work and I was so desperate that eventually I got a serious illness because I really wanted to get out of this somehow and that was the turning point in my life because it was kind of a wake-up call and also at the same time I met an Asian student in Hungary and it was Szilá and she literally saved my life because through our friendship and our conversations and she gave me herbs and different healing techniques. I was able to start getting out of this and I was able to heal my body but most likely I was able to start seeing how wrong my point of view was about certain things in life. So I was able to get out of a long time relationship that was always just taking away my power and she encouraged me to start meditating and she didn't teach meditation at that time so I started meditating with another summer student, with Pamé and she became my meditation teacher. And so meditation teachers are really wonderful beings because they teach you meditation and they start opening your heart and talk about the Dharma. So I started to be more positive and happy and eventually I became an Asian student. And another very significant person back in my life in Hungary was Domitr. And I really was afraid of Domitr, honestly, for a very long time, because she was so powerful and many times she addressed us and she gave us teachings how we should behave and what attitude we should have towards a teacher and each other. And just many years later I realized that I'm so grateful for her because by By the time I arrived to the US, I was really highly educated in the teachings of our lineage thanks to her additional teachings to the teachings that we received from Samoa. request to tell this story of my gratitude, how I started my spiritual journey and started my life in the US. I remembered a little story when I was here about, I was in the US, lived here for about a half year and I was going for my first day of job and I was going for interviews and I got this idea that as I get my first tech job I need to invite everyone who helped me along the way and whom I'm grateful for to a gratitude dinner. So I had a little whiteboard on my wall in the cabin where I lived in Bollywood and I put the title on it, Gratitude Dinner, and I started listing the names for all the people whom I grateful for. And what happened is that as time passed I just kept adding the names of the people who helped me some way or did something good to me. And the really magical thing that happened that at one point I was not able to add more names to the board because I just ran out of space. and there are just so many of you that I'm grateful for and who helped me. So the first person right after the name of Samora was the name of my husband Chisanada and our marriage is really a special marriage because it's based on a foundation of compassion and love and selfless giving. So because he decided that he wanted to support me on my journey and be there with me on the way, I was able to make it and and when I was reflecting on this I realized that our marriage is a real karma yoga except one thing that most karma yogas are going to death ground and they may die but this Karma Yoga is a living yoga. It's not going to death's ground, it's not something that you just give up. And it always be, it will always be there for us to go beyond ourselves and practice compassion and selflessness and impeccability. So there are a few things that I wanted to point out how many ways he helped me during this journey So at the beginning when I lived here I didn't have a car, neither a driver's license I had to go to places and take care of these things, the paperwork and he just always literally went the extra mile for me to be able to make these things happen. He actually drove the extra mile. he just always... I bet he had many, many times better things to do on a Saturday afternoon or a Thursday evening after a whole day of work, but many times he just sit down with me and went through the paperwork, making sure that everything will be okay. And filled and feel that precisely. Now this this Karma Yoga is something that is always help us to go beyond ourselves and get higher and eventually when we work on it, it's really a very good feeling after that. And if you know my husband a little bit, you know that whenever he puts his mind into something, he's just full in and beyond. you know what, in the US to have a good credit score is really important so I'm going to make you a good credit score and I was like I don't know what you're talking about there is no such a thing in Hungary but he just said trust me in this I'm gonna make it happen so he just kept adding me to his credit cards and bank accounts and by the end of, when I was ready for the job market I had already a credit score over 700. Now people who don't live in the US, if you have a good credit score it affects if you get, if you are accepted by bank loans or even if you get a rent. So and by the time last year when I bought my car I had no hassle to get my car because my credit score was high. So I just wanted to say There were so many opportunities when you could have gave it up but you just always refine yourself and Do this out of compassion and selflessness And I just really grateful for that So The other people on my list. I have a long list, like that. And longer actually, because as I was reflecting on these things, just new and new people came into my mind who did something good. And the people whom I'm also very grateful for is my tech teachers, because especially Lila and Tara. And there were many more on the way, but you were the first people who taught, Lila was the first who taught me programming at all, and then Tara helped me with the interview class later. But both of you are really special to me because you just kept telling me that I am smart and capable and I was just so mad at you because I didn't believe it for a very long time. But I eventually wanted to apologize for that and say a big thank you for you because I I wouldn't be as successful today if you didn't believe me, believe in me. So just because I have not that much time to go through everything, every single person who did something good to me, I just want to tell you what I achieved thanks to all your help. So back in Hungary, and just let's do a little comparison where I started and where I am today. So back in Hungary in my career, I just really hit a dead end. Whatever I tried just didn't work and I even when I became a student I quit my job, I got another job, I got a raise and I was still just at the same level even though I did really powerful things. It was still the same income and the same situation and there was no more, nowhere to go. And today I am a senior software engineer at Apple, one of the biggest IT companies around the world and everyone knows about Apple. And I just know that there's much more to come and that's my next point that I was so desperate and lacking confidence and self-esteem. And today I just know that if I put my mind into that and I go to the job market I will get an even better job. I can have any job I want. And that's the power that I was able to gain through all the support of the people. Back in Hungary, I was driving a 20 years old car. It was, I guess, almost 20 when I sold it. Today, I'm driving one of the latest models. In Hungary, I had a small apartment, which was really small and old and in a bad shape and I was 18 years more to pay for it. And today I am debt-free and I also had student loan that supposed to go until my retirement. When it's already like invalid, you don't have to pay for student loan after your retirement in Hungary. So today I don't have that and I'm driving this new car and I live in a beautiful house with, together with other Sonder members whom I'm really grateful for to live with me and share this home with me because we live together and it's just such a blessing because even we might have hardship sometimes but when we talk to each other we are all on the same path and we are always on the same page and I just really appreciate that you are here with me. So I left to the very end a very important person and that is Ambara. And I'm just so grateful for everything I have in my life basically everything is thanks to you and who I am today is thanks to you and to your teaching and it's really difficult to express that with words but I have one more short story and that's the story how I received my name and it comes from gratitude. Because at one point I realised that I try to be grateful and express my gratitude is to become successful, become a good student, and the only way for me to give back is to share. to become a student, sorry, become a teacher myself and share the Dharma and help others as well to transform their lives. And you know, when you focus on gratitude, it's really a superpower because the next The next six months in my life was the best time ever in my life because I fixed my meditation practice. I was doing well in martial arts and I was preparing to get a new job and just other things started to happen and I was working hard and finally I was doing the teachings. And by the time we got to the solstice, because I fixed my meditation practice and I put my heart into this expression of my gratitude. It really transformed me until the point that I'm really grateful for each one of you and I don't know how I will budget for that gratitude dinner and how we all will fit in one place but one day you might expect from me a dinner invitation because I really want to celebrate all of you because my success is thanks to you and not because of myself. So thank you.

0:24:17
Namaste everybody. My name is Ran Nitcher. Many of you might remember me in my older

0:24:44
look with this big beard and this long hair and pony tail. But transformation When you are in such a powerful place, in such a powerful Sangha, with such a powerful teacher, everything about you, everything around you starts changing for the better. start pointing towards enlightenment. Just a few days ago, I was in Montara and I was there for something else but I remembered that there's a beautiful place there where the sunset is amazing and there's a little sandwich shop nearby to get something to eat. And I got something and It was so beautiful and you know, you can see the coastline and all the rocks, the rock faces and the waves coming and I was reflecting on how I was born in this tiny little village in India, in South India, and this village was built around a temple. Everything in the village happened with the temple. That was its whole thing, the whole economy running around the temple. And my family, my grandpa and my grandmother, I had such a loving extended family, but it was so different. Looking back, how things were and now, the transformation from my childhood, how the society I was there in, all this kind of set up my life to come all the way here, even though it looked like obstacles in the beginning, like the obstacles of conditioning that I received from my family and extended family from the society there, from the conditions of being poor, of not having a job, all these obstacles that I had indirectly pointed me towards enlightenment. Because in my childhood, something made me pray for that. Something made me pray for something greater. And from that moment on, somehow I knew everything that life did had a purpose. And I came to learn about it more and more as I met different teachers and had experiences, but what it essentially was that everything is grace. And because it is grace, I have to be grateful for that. Everything that anyone did whether in that moment I looked at it as something negative, something that obstructed me, somehow in the grand so perfectly to drive me towards enlightenment and all this was happening because everyone and everything is a tool in the hands of enlightenment. We are all eternity's direction. We are persons of eternity taking different forms. And instead of looking at each person as an individual acting because of anger or hate or jealousy, that whatever they did directly or indirectly was the action of eternity itself. Somehow I could be grateful for that and looking back it's all true. see now how, you know, like one small example of this conditioning was when I went to visit my grandma much later. I was in my teenagers, I was like 19 or 20, and my grandma is so loving, you know, she's, she's, she's like, she's a big heart basically. But with that comes a lot of attachment and over-protectiveness and so much fear for my safety. I wanted to go to the beach. And my grandma was so scared that I would die. Because she had read an article a few days ago that three teenagers died when they were swimming in the beach and she was so afraid. And all this, you know, things, you know, it all comes from great intention, comes from love. kind of conditioning makes us fearful, makes us look at life in all these ways that are not for us and being here in this this fast path I'm seeing how I'm to look at these karmas coming up over the karas and be able to transform going beyond them. When I met Samvara and a few others, I was already in the spiritual path for a long time and I was with a teacher for a while and I was living in Tiruvannamalai, this spiritual town in South India where we have the mountain Arunachala. You know, I did not have a job. I did not have any money. But I was really surrendering to life and grateful for everything that life gave me. And life was taking care of me so well. Whenever I needed money, somehow something would happen. I had great friends. I had great experiences. But I had no power. I did not have the the consistency and the discipline to maintain those states that I would go into. And even with that I was completely satisfied and completely grateful for and I would have been totally happy there. But I was in this, sitting in this cafe out of nowhere, Samvara and some of the students who were on the India trip walked in and since then this path changed to even more transformation, even accelerated way of overcoming all these obstacles and karmas and conditions. The first thing that happened is that they took me to Rishikesh, this near the Himalayas in the north. I have always wanted to go there and I did not have money. It was thousands of miles away. And I was like, I want to go there. I feel the call to go there. But if life wants it, life will do it. Eternity will give me some way. And somehow, without even expecting it, they took me there. Paid all the ticket and stay and everything. It was the most beautiful trip. And on the banks of River Ganga as we were walking, Samvara invited me to come visit USA. This was two and a half years ago. It seems like a much longer time. And I did not know when he invited me how it's gonna happen but I was like wow that's wonderful I would love to. in the West or never. I did not, I had this expired passport. And I did not have a way to get a visa even to fly to the United States because to have the visa you should have certain criteria. You should have a job and you should be stable in India so that they they're like okay this is a genuine person who's wanting to travel so we can give him a visa. I remember in Rishikesh, before I came to the United States, I read this poem to Samara and others where I expressed my gratitude and I was so happy meeting them and this gratefulness, it just keeps, you know, it's a feedback loop. You have a little bit of gratefulness and it makes you even more grateful and then it just keeps going in this cycle. From there, I studied technology. I had amazing teachers from Golden State and mentors. Vivica, who was teaching at Golden State then, she really helped me understand. understand you know I was interested in computers earlier in my childhood I wanted to learn but I ended up learning something else but when they said you can become a web developer and you can earn a good amount of money it's going to be fun and it's meditative and you can hold all these structures in your mind and it's a part in itself. I was so excited. Viveka helped me discover HTML, CSS, JavaScript and all this. had this, who has this, you know, ZenCloud, the sales force consulting company, we have a branch in Bangalore. I could get an internship there because I learned sales force. And then I got a job in this Sangha company. Isn't that amazing? And me having nothing to do whatsoever with corporate or all of this, getting this job and making more money already there in India than a lot of engineers who are working for several years and having so much more experience. I was amazed how things can happen so quickly when Dharma is with you. And then with that personal power, with having a job and being able to show that I am a trustable individual, I could get a visa the first time I tried. I've heard so many people getting infected and all this. It was like a dream how it just progressed and happened. Then I come here and life showered me with even more We went to all these beautiful places I had never even dreamed of going to. I have always wanted to travel the world, but being in Hawaii and scuba diving, Mount I was feeling like I'm in heaven.

0:41:18
And all this, I saw that was happening because life wanted me to progress on my spiritual

0:41:26
I was seeing everything that happened as grace and being grateful to it and accepting it and everyone who helped me was was enlightenment pulling me towards enlightenment leading me on the right path. Then, there are so many people, like Tukki said, she put it so perfectly, each of them, this time won't be enough. But so many Sannyas brothers and sisters supported me in so many ways to help me be where I am today. without their help, it would have been very different, without their selflessness and compassion. And whenever I wanted to bring the practice of my father to heal people in India, when I wanted to do it here, the way he encouraged me and the way he saw the highest potential in each of us and helps us realize that. And I'm so grateful for that. was happening, it was the contribution of selflessly and my part was only going with following the teachings of Samadhi. And to do that, to come and be here, it's a journey in itself to bring yourself up to that power and without the help of others to support you it's not possible. I have so many notes here I don't know which one to mention and I don't know how much time I have left.

0:45:16
The most important person that I want to mention who who

0:45:22
has played many roles in my life.

0:45:25
Another way I saw different people,

0:45:28
like in India we have millions of gods and goddesses, right? So when somebody interacted with me,

0:45:36
I sometimes would connect them to a god or goddess. And this person has played the roles of Saraswati, Lakshmi and Kali. Saraswati is the goddess of knowledge and beauty and music. one who is taking away, killing all illusion. And this person, Asha, my wife, she has played of helping me follow the Dharma as a Dharampatni. Dharampatni is the Sanskrit word which means

0:46:44
partner in following the Dharma.

0:46:48
Your life partner, a Dharma life partner. And she has truly been that. She has been Saraswati when she helped me tone up, get the tone on right and she helped me get these clothes and look sharp when I wanted to interview. And she has been Lakshmi when she helped me financially when I needed financial support. There are many of Santhana members who have helped me with finance. Like also her. And when I brought my old conditioning from my earlier life in India, you know, you put this on your life partner more than anyone else probably, right? When you're interacting with them, all these karmas and samskaras come about, show themselves widely. And when I brought that up with her unconsciously, being ignorant of this. She is Kali. She is such a powerful woman and I'm so thankful for how she can see things so clearly when I can't. And she has pointed it out. And she has also been patient and very nice not to make it too hard on me but at the same time in a really very balanced way cutting down these illusions and you know it's it's such a the way she has helped me. And coming back to the story of

0:49:13
this place I was sitting in, Montero, that's when I realized that

0:49:19
all that I'm hoping for, all that I have dreamt of and even this was already being provided to me here

0:49:43
being here in this Sangam

0:49:44
and being able to follow the Dharma. So one thing I want to thank each and every one of you who has done so much to support my path and support me being able to follow. So thank you all and I'm grateful to this.

0:50:23
Hello, hi, good morning, good afternoon and good night. My name is Lila. I'm a student of Sambara 14 years now and I would like to share my story of gratitude to you. I'm from Hungary from a far far away galaxy and I grew up in a middle class family. I didn't particularly have a good education and I didn't speak much English at all and I had to live with my family because I always was struggling with financial difficulties. I had to take hard sales jobs which didn't pay well and also sometimes had to take 12 hours night shifts to make some money. So I was continuously put into this box of limitations by my environment and I couldn't break out. Meditation was hard in a family when no one is interested in spiritual liberation. They couldn't understand where I'm coming from. I felt in pain. Well, I also didn't have in my family an example who could show me to break out from this box of limitations. I didn't get any encouragement or support to unfold and to be who I meant to be to live up to my fullest potential. But I would have done anything really to break out from this situation. So this is a little bit of a background about my life prior to joining the sangha, everything shifted out. Everything became sunnier, shinier, brighter. As we started to work with my sangha together on projects and we were sharing new ideas, completely new views, new vistas of life. And I was really, really excited working on sales, on cold course, on any project we got to work on as a karma yoga merging with the light of karma yoga really really opened up a new completely new life for me. Then another magic happened a new dimension of computer science opened up so we started to merge into this new dimension which I really really enjoyed open to open. I was not pretty good you know in math or any logical subject at school so I was worried in the beginning how am I gonna learn it and I didn't know anything about computers I never had a computer in my whole life I didn't even know what is an escape button or an enter so I didn't even know how to enter, how to push the enter so that was serious but I saw that others could do it and they showed me this if they could do it, so can I and they completely showed me a way how to go beyond my limitations and do whatever it takes. Attitude. So, yeah, computer science, when I started to merge into it, I noticed that coding, it was like meditation. It was just no different. I was in completely bliss and the light completely streamed through my screen and I was like a it's a nirvana I became a nirvana junkie me being I was on the computer almost like I don't know like 20 hours I barely went to sleep and it was just amazing amazing support to to be connected with such a tool which empowered me, opened my mind, completely shifted my perception and made me stronger, made me believe in myself that I can do it. And after this, I started to apply jobs, tech jobs in Hungary. But again, I ran into a barrier. I learned that if you don't have a university degree in technology then you really don't stand a chance. So I was again in the same box living with my parents, starting to unfold, starting to explore my choice potentials, but still I was stuck and I thought I could be so much better, I could do so much better, I could share all of this magic and wonder if it could come through me one day. And then a miracle happened to me. Basically it related to two selfless Sangha friends in the US. One of them was offering his help to come to the US and work at his company and that was an overwhelmingly amazing offer for me. It was like when I was sitting it seems like winning the lottery kind of really. Someone told us that if you get into a tech field in Hungary, I mean in here, then you can get 100,000 K per year. And for me it was like, this is like winning a lottery in Hungary. And this is what I was offered, a stepping stone, a help from my son-in-law friend to come work at his company, sharpen my tech skills and sharpen my English so when I'm ready, maybe one or two years, then I can come and apply for a job and be truly independent financially, spiritually and completely. struggled from before that I was not able to be independent and strong and powerful. So after this I got another amazing, amazing, selfless offer from another Sangha friend through a compassionate marriage and this was also an overwhelming support for me. We are best friends, I would say. He always supported me when I needed him. we had to go through and our marriage, our compassionate marriage was really the purest, most innocent, compassionate relationship out of all. So I'm really grateful for both of them. to study and sharpen my tech skills and get ready for my new life and keep studying with some bar and staying in the sangha. So that was an enormous support. They gave me the shook my life out of poverty and limitations from a healthy and safe and supportive environment

0:59:29
when anything was possible.

0:59:31
I felt like I was a seed and they were the water, the ground and the sun for my seed so it could bloom and flower into beautiful flower. Then after this my flower of success was blooming and of course my salary in the last 10 years kept increasing since then. I was able to stand on my own feet, I was completely independent, I had my own apartment, I'm driving a Mercedes now and I became black belt in martial arts and eventually I became an advanced yogi. I was teaching front-end developer classes and Golden State Technology helped with preparing for interviews and basically became a yoga leader eventually at Golden State Technology Institute. I don't know if you guys know this but Golden State actually handed out 50 plus front-end developers certificates for the new ST5 students who took and completed the Golden State course, and many of them already working in their 100 plus K tech job. So the success, it keeps growing, and whatever we learned, I learned from my teacher, I handed on to my students and my students now teaching you. So this is definitely beautiful, successful structure of this lineage which works and keeps growing and it brings success. It will bring success to all of you if you put in the energy, the time and you believe in it. So through our compassionate actions we always help others in the most supportive way we can. Selfless giving with Dharma brings immense merit on the spiritual path. There is a beautiful saying from Saint Francis of Assisi, that we receive, that is in pardoning that we are pardoned, there is in dying that we are born into eternal life. So I believe in this field of giving and compassion. I am immensely grateful to these two benefactors I mentioned. ex-compassionate husband and this amazing amazing benefactor who helped me out. You guys were there when I needed a helping hand and you guys demonstrated compassion in action so you actually did something not just thought about it and that means a lot. I'm also very very grateful for my whole Sangha, our Sangha unity. And I'm very proud that our Sangha basically created a peaceful supportive environment for everyone else who comes here and could grow, could change and could reach their fullest potential. There are so many seeds in this Sangha who needs just a little bit of support and we could be there for them and we could we could see them unfold completely. And finally I'm extremely grateful to Sambhara who is a real Bodhisattva who is really really always looking for the ways how to help others always positive attitude always trying to make us be the best version of ourselves without your compassion and Physical, mental, emotional and spiritual support, I would not be who I am today. My debt of gratitude to you all is immense and my wish is to be further service to you all with the greatest extent it's possible. Thank you from the bottom of my heart.

1:05:45
Dodie-san, you are unmuted by host. Oh, well.

1:05:51
Wow, I would love to thank the speakers Tuki and Ra and Leela. Very beautiful. Very appreciative. That was really wonderful. So, when you hear a story of, let's say, a black belt in karate or something. The story is of lots of physical work and practice and developing strength and power, you know, a lot of developing themselves. But really it's a story of heart. So these were stories of their experience. These great yogis, their experience on the path. And it was experiences of strength, power, but it takes heart to have that. And myself being a student of martial arts, you don't get that unless you get a little help. So your Kung Fu teacher or your karate sensei, they have great ability and knowledge and then they help you. And so when you are strong enough to help another person, that means that you've gotten great strength from your practice and you're able to help another person. So, these are stories of strong yogis who got help, helped others. And that's what we do in Asanda. We help each other. So, when you're facing the adversity of difficult times, like now, this world that we're in. If you're working on learning technology, even if the difficult times are hard, it's time to like be strong and to get the support of the other people and to succeed. So learning technology, it's hard, right? So there's adversity, but if you work on it, you succeed, and you're strong, you will be successful. Like the three students who gave a teaching of their experience. You can be successful, absolutely without a doubt. But you gotta do it.

1:08:53
And then you look at, oh, a lot of people helped you out,

1:08:58
and someday, you know what? You can help other people, people who need help, people who need to be lifted up, who need opportunities to get out of the karmas that they're in, to just let life bring them to what we have here, an evolution, a high dharma. So when you're learning computer programming, and it's hard, yeah, it's hard, and you're learning from people, and you're getting assistance from people, and you're working really hard, you're not just doing something with your mind, you're overcoming something with your heart and your spirit. And when you can do that and be grateful for the people who are helping you, as the speakers were very grateful for the people who helped them, and then you are able to help other people, and then they'll be grateful. Slackers, those bastards, you are not grateful, you ungrateful. Now of course they'll be grateful. So and then they'll be grateful and this this is what keeps like a the dharma moving. We're grateful for the people who help us, give us opportunities. Even if it's hard work, they never give up.

1:10:31
You know?

1:10:32
This is what Tuki said. She was like, Oh my gosh, I'm not so good at this computer thing. And they never gave up.

1:10:41
And if you don't give up,

1:10:44
we're never going to give up.

1:10:45
That's what we do for each other in the Sun. and the energy of gratitude propels you. And then someday you'll help someone else out as well, and you'll give them this gift of empowerment and gratitude as well. So I'd like to say thank you very much. And we will resume our conversation next week, or we'll have to schedule it, but probably next week at the same time. And we'll talk about gratitude, and we'll have our advanced students come back and share more about gratitude. So thank you all very much. Have a good night and a good morning. Have a good night and a good morning.

1:11:54
And a good afternoon.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
