0:00:00
Let's start with meditation. So we're going to meditate for one song, focusing on the heart chakra. Sit nice and straight.

0:00:11
And let's begin.

0:00:12
So

0:00:14
so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Wonderful. So today we're going to take a deep dive into gratitude in Bodhicitta for transforming adverse conditions into the pathway of awakening. community. And I call it a deep dive because this is where we'll face the hardest stuff.

0:01:20
So for enlightenment, you can't be put off by them. You have to accept them. And when you can accept all hardships, open your heart to all difficulties, then you're truly able to know life, if you're constantly running away, saying, I don't want this, I don't like that, I don't like this person, then you don't know life. You're in self-defense mode, pushing off life. Enlightenment is accepting life. And death, in all things. So dealing with the hardest things, with gratitude and compassion, there's a way to transform into power and light and liberation. So, let's start with the easiest thing. Death. Right? So, most people think death isn't so good. However, death is good. And we can face death with gratitude. And with gratitude we transform death. So when we think of death as bad, it's like, oh, it's a horrible thing. I cease to to exist. But when you have gratitude, then it makes death beautiful, powerful, enlightening. So death is not a terrible, terrible thing. When we look at our death, we have to look at our life. So, you know, when you have gratitude in your life, when you're looking at all the wonderful things, the divine things in your life, the wonderful miracles in your life, when you see that, when you come to death, then you are grateful for your life. And when you're grateful for your life, you enter death in a beautiful way. A lot of people enter death with fear, confusion, anguish. And that's a horrible way to enter death. See, we study in the advanced study, we study the Bardo Tharal, the Tibetan Book of the Dead, and we do it, you know, we have a yoga of enlightenment at the time of death and the intermediate states between death and rebirth. And the most powerful thing that you can do as you enter the bardos. See, when the physical body dies, the spirit doesn't die. Your spirit goes on. So the most powerful thing you can do at the time of death is stop thought. Go into the light. But you'll find yourself conscious and aware. And after death, your consciousness and your awareness is present. I mean, it's like you're in your house, you're with your loved ones, and if you're a job yogi, you're going to work, you're on your computer. So, your spirit is still there. I guarantee it. You will see. So when people are in what I call the second bardo, right after death, they very often have fears and attachments, and that's the way that they operate. And that's why ghosts hang out in haunted houses. Get out of my house! They're attached to their house. Things like that. So instead of fear and attachment, we practice gratitude. And then in death, we have gratitude for our lives. We look at, we're a little ghost for a little while, and we look at our life, the places, the people, the things, and instead of having fear, confusion, and attachment, we have gratitude. And gratitude and love are the basis for liberation in the bardos, in the intermediate stages, after you die. Gratitude in the second bardo is the key. It's the key to liberation. There was a Zen teacher and he was, you know, on his deathbed. He was ill for a long time and two monks were tending to him and he sat up. He was very ill, lying down, very weak, and he sat up, had them bring parchment and a quill, a brush, and he wrote on it, grateful for death, or at least I think it was grateful death. And when he wrote that, put down the brush, and he went into Samadhi, he had a Satori, but it was like a full enlightenment. And then he keeled over dead, died after the physical body goes into full liberation, or I mean he's in the physical body doesn't matter. His spirit ascended to the highest awareness and then he died in that state, or his physical body died. His spirit attained eternal liberation. So the two monks that were taking care of him, they were, you know, just regular monks, but seeing this and understanding this truth, they both went into Satori as well to have their enlightened awakening. Death is a way to enlightenment. So, when we reflect on our death, we see more life. When you're every day, moment by moment, then life is fantastic. This is what we call using death as an advisor. You're like, oh, I'm in traffic and then you're like, this is bad and you go. Well, I could be dead

0:14:05
There's this this great Salesman I knew it in English in Chicago

0:14:10
Dharma and I used to Hang out with him. His name was Tim or Ted. I always forgot. I always called him Tim and Ted. Darn well, I always knew what it was. I'm like, I'm gonna hide a stupid mind, Tim. No, no, no, it's Ted. Anyway, Ted, you have to be like, to be a salesman, you have to be, you have to have, you have to be fearless. And he would always say, I ask, he's like, I always ask for the sale. He's all, he's like, if I ask, you know, it's uncomfortable. He's like, but is it going to kill me? No. Live your life. Ask for the sale. Because that gives you advantage. That makes you, reflect on death and then you see more life and this is especially good for job yogis it's like you know it's like Tim ask for the sale Ted ask for the sale But for a job yogi, when you advise your death, you say, whoa, I really need to work with impeccability. I really need to be as powerful and successful as possible right now. And even if I'm at the beginning learning, you know, computer programming or something, right? This is the most powerful thing you can do. If you advise your death and you're going to die tomorrow, then die making yourself powerful as a yogi. There was this job yogi who thought of his death as his great fortune. It's like, oh, death will be perfect. Death will be my great fortune. Because he was a job yogi. And he was also dying to get into the funeral business. So, job yogis love death. There was this one job yogi, he was a coal miner in Columbia. No, he wasn't a yogi. But there was a coal miner in Columbia and he, there was, you know, like there was a collapse in the coal mine and him and 17 other miners got trapped for, I don't know, like days, might've been a week or more. And, you know, they kind of gave up hope after a while. They thought they were just going to die, but they were saved. And when, when he came up, he was so grateful for his life. He saw that he was taking his life for granted, but he spent a week or more just realizing how precious life is and that he was facing death. And even in that moment, he should have had gratitude, but he saw how precious life is. And when he was freed, he loved life. So I saw this on TV or on an airplane or something, which we don't go on anymore. But I remember seeing him just standing with his son, he had a 10 year old son, and he took his son, and they were standing out in a field, there's some trees, and he's just like looking at the sun and the sky and nature and his arms are open and you could see that this guy was alive. Most people are like zombies, the walking dead, not knowing that they're dead. You gotta be like that then master, right? Grateful Death. The Grateful Dead. Right? I don't know if I've heard any of their songs, but I like their name, the Grateful Dead. Be grateful. At the time of death. Life is short. You remember when you were four? Remember when you were ten? Remember when you were sixteen? It's gone. There's only this moment. And someday this moment will be over. And then it'll be a moment of death. So this thing that we call life is short. And when you know that death is going to come, you take this funny lifetime that we have, and all the difficulties and You're grateful for it. It's wonderful. So, this man goes to his doctor. The doctor does some tests. The doctor says, You're going to die. You've got six months to live. And the man goes, Oh my gosh, is there anything I can do? And the doctor says, Yes. There's a church. He tells him where the church is, you can go there. There's this pastor. He's 87 years old. And he does a four hour sermon every day. Go to his sermons every day. And then the man says, Okay, well, is that going to heal my illness? And the doctor says, Oh, no, not going to heal your illness at all. It's just that after those four hour sermons, six months is going to seem like an eternity. Life is impermanent. Even if you sit there and go through those sermons, I know my Dharma talks are very boring, but uh four hours. I used to, I used to do long talks. I used to do four hour talks, six hour talks, and I didn't tell stories or tell jokes. And then I met the millennials. Yeah, so Europeans, sorry. Sorry. You guys have to have this format. So, I mean, the other format is me just repeating things. Enlightened! Enlightened! Enlightened! It's like that. It works. Yet, I'm here to please the crowd. Skillful means, whatever you need, I've got it. You want to buy some skillful means? Okay, so, um,

0:22:45
depth.

0:22:48
It's important to reflect on death. And also have a sense of humor. There's a lot of Zen masters who had like the funny Zen death poems. They're all, I was here, now I'm gone.

0:23:06
L'chaim!

0:23:13
And the death of a loved one, the death of a pet, these can be things where we see it all as sad and bad. Oh, I'm forever torn from someone I love. No. There's no separation. Love, love is union. And if you love someone a lot, that just exposes you to the truth of life. That love is a radical beautiful wonderful thing Now if you have attachment you're gonna suffer But if you have love It shows you the truth of life if you Love if you loved growing up You love your mother you love your father you love your family you love your friends, then you have a big heart And you love and you reflect love So love doesn't die love is eternal Now when I love one dies then yeah in this world in this transient world of illusion They go away. You don't see them again. You can't play in the maya with them. But there's no reason for suffering. There's no reason for you to have distress. When someone that you love is dead, you should have gratitude for the time you've been with

0:25:03
them.

0:25:04
It was wonderful. I always say you should see it as a good thing, like a wonderful musical concert, right? So this person was a great being, someone that you've loved, and there was some fun, wonderfulness, and they had their own special thing, like a certain band, or a certain orchestra, or a certain composer. And then when they're gone, you say, oh, that was a wonderful performance. And you should just appreciate it and say that was a great performance. Do you walk out of a great concert and say it's over and done, I'll never have a concert again. No. You say that was beautiful, that was really fun, that was great. So there's no reason to be sad. We say, yes, that was good. That was wonderful. We appreciate that opportunity. So, when there's a death of a loved one, there's no reason to be shut out, to feel lessened, to feel distressed. We actually have gratitude. Gratitude reference. So, it's important when someone dies that we see the bigger picture. When You can have bodhicitta, compassion. You can do tonglen for someone after they've passed away. Just because their body has gone, their spirit still remains in some bardo. And the more you learn about the bardos, the more you're accessible to help them. But just bodhicitta, taking and sending, when someone's passed, is very, very powerful. When someone passes away and you do bodhicitta, taking and sending, you definitely are aware of them. And you definitely know where they're at. You know their mind. And you can connect with them. And they say in the teachings that when someone has passed and they're in the bardos, that their spirit is nine times more aware. So I had a student in Hungary and his father died at a pretty early age. He was 61 and he was devastated by his father's death. And then there was a woman who came to talk to him, and she had a daughter, and her daughter died at the age of seven. And that was pretty devastating to her. She went through this profound process. But then after meditating for a while, she came to a realization that she had with her. So she was grateful for that time. She didn't look at it like, oh my gosh, it should have been more, I'm so devastated because it wasn't what other people experience or whatever. She came to understand that those seven years were precious. And when she talked about this to the guy who had a father for 61 years, it gave him a different perspective. It's like, oh my gosh, my dad had this disease and he died so quickly. We all die. Let's be grateful for what we have when we're not dead.

0:30:59
And when we're dead, let's be grateful for that too.

0:31:02
You know, so Marpa, Marpa the translator, not Marpa the FX trader. Marpa, a great teacher in Tibet. He was like sitting there, his grandson died. And he was holding his grandson's body. And he was in front of all of his monks, all of his students, and he was just weeping. And the night before the death of his grandson, he gave a talk about impermanence and illusion. He's like, all of this is a dream. Nothing is actually physical. It's all insubstantial. This whole life is illusion. It's maya. It's samsara. And then the next day his grandson dies and he's sitting there weeping. And then his students are like, Master, like, why are you so upset? This is an illusion, just like you said. And then Martha said, my tears are also illusion.

0:32:53
A little bit of ironic sarcasm commentary of enlightenment.

0:32:58
So death is too easy. Let's talk about illness. Because illness gets you while you're still here. If you just die, poof!

0:33:27
Wonderful.

0:33:28
See, after you get the Bardo teachings, you're like, oh great, I know what to do with time

0:33:33
of death.

0:33:34
Wonderful. I'm grateful. So, love, and then everything, liberation and death is the best. But what happens when you're still alive and you have illness? You're sick and dirty, no just sick, and your physical body hurts and aches, if you have chronic pain, what do you do in the physical body when you have illnesses and chronic disease and monkeys on your back and all sorts of things, what Gratitude. Compassion. The teachings of taking and sending, the teachings in Bodhisitta, are teachings to help you deal with life. Death, we've already done with, right? So easy. But now we're dealing with life and the hardships of life. The greatest hardships when you're alive are your physical body. I know that you get mad at people and you get bothered by circumstances, but when you're just bothered by people and circumstances, you have all the power in the universe to do something about it. But when your body shuts down, when you're ill or when you're in great pain, it's very difficult. So this is a great and important time to practice gratitude. Because when you have an illness or physical pain, it tends to just bring all of your focus into your body. So you could be meditating for 20 years and like, everything's cool. And the moment someone keys your car, mindfulness goes out the door. But the moment you get a cold or let's say a back pain, your awareness goes from this wonderful I meditate and everything spiritual to my physical body hurts. So we have to see a way Why am I calling him Bodhisita? Stop it you Tibetans!

0:36:24
You Tibetans are...

0:36:26
I got a couple Tibetan monks in Bodhi Woods and they're like, why is he saying Bodhisita? Okay, so... When you are dealing with physical illness and physical pain, this is where you have to have strong gratitude. Gratitude for illness. So, a student of my teacher, he used to sit, he told me a story, he used to sit down to meditate. And he would sit in the half lotus position on the ground, he'd put one leg on top of the other in a cross-legged position, and, I guess it wasn't crossed, it was overlaid, and then he would meditate. After 15 minutes, he was in a lot of pain. His knee would hurt, and one of his ankles would hurt. And he sat there, and he was like, If I sit here, and I do this, I feel physical pain. And if you feel physical pain, you're in the physical. So then that hurt made him drive his focus. So he'd be like, I don't want to focus on physical pain, I want to focus on my chakra. And so the more pain that there was, the more he would focus on the chakra. Until he would focus on the chakra so much, he would go completely beyond the awareness of the physical and into worlds of light and brightness. Now, if he sat there and he would sit for an hour. So, after 15 minutes, if things started to hurt, if he just focused on what hurt, he would only be in that physical awareness of what hurt. But because it hurt, he focused more on the chakra. And that became a catalyst for meditation for him. And he focused so much on the chakra that he went beyond the physical into light and brightness, into the stillness of being, and there was no more pain. So when you have illness or physical pain, there's a way beyond it, which is going into spirit. It gives you perspective if you go into spirit. You can be grateful for illness because it gives you perspective. I remember I was in New York. I was a monk working on Wall Street. And I remember one winter I got the flu. And I was out for a week. I could not get out of bed. And when I got better, I was on fire. I was like, I had a week of nothing. And now I'm awake and I'm gonna do everything. So I have a student, or had a student, or have a student, who, I have a student who had the coronavirus. And this student, you know, was following the teachings, which is, there we go.

0:40:50
You guys can keep sneezing.

0:40:52
I'm just going to thumbs up it.

0:40:53
If you cough, that's a problem.

0:40:55
Okay.

0:40:56
student who had COVID-19 and was following the teachings, which was, Oh, I need to learn tech because I don't have a strong career. And he was, he didn't like learning tech. He just did it because I said, learn it or you're out of my school. And he's like, oh, this I'll try. Then he's learning it and didn't like it, didn't want to do it. And then got COVID-19 and had two weeks of difficulty. A one week period where he couldn't get out of bed, he was on his back, he was totally out, difficult breathing, fever, and then he had a full recovery, golf clap. And then after he recovered, he was on fire with learning tech, or he is. So he had gained some perspective from facing a great illness, and he's young, so he knew he wasn't going to, or he was pretty sure he wasn't going to die. He didn't get to a place where he had to go to the hospital or or anything, but he knew he was very ill and he was not able to do anything. And it gave him some perspective. I can be ill, unable to do anything. Or I could be healthy and So he was able to experience that great, terrible illness. Great in terms of big, not in terms of good illness. This terrible illness. And to come out of it with more perspective of, oh, what I do matters. My life matters. My life matters. Every moment matters. So then he started doing Eat Sleep Program. And that's what it takes if you want to be successful. If you're a beginner in tech, Eat Sleep Program. Maybe a little exercise and meditation and bodhisattva. So you have to be very dedicated. This is what brought him to dedication, the perspective of this illness. It's something that gives you awareness. When you see that something can take you out, flatten you, make you just be sick, in the time where you have awareness and wakefulness, you take advantage of it. So, illness is a great teacher. Speaking of a great teacher, there was a famous American teacher, his name is Ram Das. a very, very intense, severe stroke. He was a teacher for many years, started off as a Harvard professor, went to India, found a guru, learned many powerful teachings. And then he wrote books and brought it back to America. He was very influential in America. And he, you know, he's a good writer, good speaker. And he had a severe stroke and he called that stroke not as a bad physical thing, but he looked at it as grace, as the divine. It was very fierce, wrathful, and intense for his body, but his spirit was very strong. after his stroke he couldn't talk and he was in bed but he could move and this this other spiritual guy came to visit him and he brought him a little picture Ramana Maharshi. And this was a great Indian saint from Tiruvannamalai of Arunachala. And Ramana Maharshi didn't talk very much. He did most of his teachings through just his And he gave Ram Dass this picture of this great enlightened saint, because he's like, hey, now that you can't talk, this is a way of transmission. And then Ram Dass signaled someone to bring him over a little box, and he brought out this box and he pulled out a little picture, same size, a little picture of Satya Sai Baba and then he fiddles around in the box. He pulls out a baseball trading card of Mickey Mantle. So he gives him Satya Sai Baba to Papa and a Mickey Mouse for his Ramada Maharshi. Gotta have humor in illness. It's a great teacher. You know, do you know that like a lot of powerful people who get an illness, then use their money and influence to help that illness. I think you've heard of these things a lot. So whatever happens to you, if it's an illness that happens to you, it strikes you, it's a teacher to you. It's something for you to work through. Just one that comes to mind, I mean in the Enlightenment workbook, we have Christopher Reeve. Like, he broke his neck, couldn't move, created a foundation. But another one who comes to mind is Michael J. Fox. Michael J. Fox, great American actor, for those of you who don't know him. And he got Parkinson's about a dozen years ago. Parkinson's is a disease that, it's like ALS. Your muscles start to lose control, eventually your heart is a muscle, and then you don't live any longer. So he's been alive for at least a dozen years with Parkinson's. And he didn't care anything about Parkinson's, as this great actor growing and doing very well. And when he got it, then all of a sudden there's the Michael J. Fox Foundation. And all of his money and attention is going into how can I help people in my similar karma? This physical disease. So, illness as a teacher, it's a natural thing. Lots of people do that. They have an illness and then once they have an illness they have an awareness of it and they want to help other people in that same illness. So it's a very natural thing to occur.

0:50:32
Illness.

0:50:36
So I had this wonderful experience with a student of mine, one of my advanced students. So she had tremendous physical pain. At some point, her back went out. So she was a black belt, she was a dive master, so she had done lots of physical things, and at this one point, her back went out. And the doctors said, you need a surgery. Her father was a Harvard doctor. And he said, you need a surgery. And then while I was hanging out with her, I was like, this is not normal. You need a surgery. So she had at least two surgeries, like major back surgery. And she spent years with chronic pain. And it wasn't easy, but she did the most important thing. With any illness or any pain, you take responsibility for it. You say, I'm not a victim, I'm a participant in this experience. And she grew in so many ways in awareness attention from dealing with all these little painful things. When you feel, if you have physical pain or an illness, if you just feel, oh, something bad is happening to me and I'm suffering, it hurts me, then you're a victim. But if you meet it, you meet it, you come to it, you join with it and say, we're going to work through this. Whether it kills you or not, then you're taking responsibility. Then you're living, you're not a victim. And this is where you can have Dharma. So she had Dharma. She learned so many lessons from paying attention to all these subtle things. And she learned, you know, through many years, how to handle it, how to take care of herself, how to understand the pain, and how to, you know, deal with all sorts of medications, treatments, so that she could be okay and strong. And she learned about her body, she learned about healing, and now she's at a point of not in the same chronic pain. So she learned a powerful lesson of healing. So healing, pain, illness, and death, they offer us great opportunities. Opportunities of awareness. Opportunities to transcend illness to have gratitude. You know, I remember years after her great, I mean she had great chronic pain, and then years after when she had gone through this cycle of learning and healing, I said, if you can go all the way back to that time when you were this very active martial artist and all this great stuff and we used to dive all the time, if you can go back to that time and make a choice to be healed of your pain or to go through it again, what would you do?" And she said, No doubt. Because that was a powerful lesson in enlightenment for her. It wasn't something horrible. It was horrible. It was painful. It was difficult. But she went into spirit, which transcends the physical. So if you're going to experience COVID-19, when you experience it, go into spirit. If you're going to die from COVID-19, go into spirit. If you go into spirit, She was grateful for her injury. If you're grateful for your life, you're grateful for your illness, and you're grateful for your death, you're going into spirit. you're going into spirit.

0:56:40
And that's why we practice gratitude.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
