0:00:00
All right, so this is the time of the warrior and a very important thing to acknowledge and be aware of is that warriors are victorious. I mean maybe not at first. So that means that we might fall down, but when you fall down, you get back up and keep going. And if you get back up and keep going, you will succeed. That's how it is with meditation. You sit down to meditate and you might just be like, oh I just think all the time. But if you commit yourself to it, then eventually you'll master meditation. If you just sit, focus on the chakra, when thoughts draw you off, you just come back to the chakra. bring it back, eventually you'll master meditation. So it's important to develop your skills. When you develop your skills, you're victorious. It's like in martial arts. You know, you develop your skills in martial arts. In the beginning you're a white belt and you've got no skills. And when you develop yourself in martial arts, then all of a sudden you're strong, you're powerful. So we develop ourselves so that we can be Music is a powerful yogic success. So my teacher, when he was talking about Zazen, the original music yoga team, he said that they were some of the most successful yogis. accomplished song after song, album after album with impeccability and magic. So when you hear these songs, every song is a victory. Can you write a song? Can you play a song?

0:02:35
Right?

0:02:37
To be able to play a song takes impeccability. It takes years of training to play a song. And what more to write a song to be that creative energy. It's intense.

0:03:04
I know because I've written some of the songs.

0:03:06
My mother had wisdom and started me in music when I was like four or five. And I was playing the recorder. Boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop. I think that was the first song I learned. Or Three Blind Minds or something. So yeah, my mother wanted me to be cultured, so she had the wisdom to put me in music at a very

0:03:42
young age.

0:03:43
I went from the recorder, to the clarinet, to the oboe. And I went through the School of the Arts High School, playing the oboe. And I got to be a very advanced oboe player. My teacher outside of the School of the Arts was the first oboist of ballet and the opera in San Francisco. So I was a very accomplished oboe player. And I learned so much. There's so much subtlety in music. Subtle energies and awarenesses and also technicality, this first attention and also spirit. And so the music yogis bring us across. It's very strong, very powerful. And when they become music yogis, we're bringing across expressions that are more than just like, you know, classical music or whatever, jazz or something, we're bringing across these dimensions of meditation, dimensions of life. And it's very, very powerful to focus on that, to focus on creating music, playing music that has dimensions of life. It takes a lot of skill, a lot of skill. Like, to be able to play an instrument takes years. To be able to write music takes years. And a high degree of skill and capability. So the musicians in our music yoga have years of training, years of practice and an ability to be able to create these songs. And of course, you know, Mudra, fantastic. It's been a tremendous grace to our sangha. Um, you know, we call him Zen Maestro Nyuja. Cause he was able to bring such a powerful, um, structure, mostly, and, and vision to our music to make it, I mean, this is, this, these are the skills you need to, to be strong. And then when Bodhi has graced us with his abilities, he's like the 10th degree black belt of music yoga. I'm not kidding. Like, wow. Maharshi song. Magic, magic, magic, magic. Do you know what it takes to do that? It takes magic. I mean it takes, it takes skill, but it also is very, very strong in the second It brings forth light. So we have to develop our skills. The musicians have brought forth in their yoga amazing, beautiful, wonderful worlds of light. These are the anthems that we meditate to. And they connect to the highest places of power, the highest saints, and they bring these things forth. And we're very fortunate to have Miss Yoga as part of our school.

0:07:55
you have to be a yogi with great skill.

0:07:59
Because look what the music yogis in Vayu and Dazen have given us. They've given us amazing music to meditate to. That's what we do. That's our school. It's the way that we meditate. We meditate to music. I mean, you can meditate in silence as well, but a great aid to our meditation, to help us meditate, learn meditation, is meditating to music. This is their service, their offering, from their impeccability and their discipline and their skill. You know, Bodhi, being part of Zazen, was, I think, one of the most helpful things for meditation for all of my teachers, students. If we had to sit around in silence, we're Americans, so we start thinking. But when there's the artist who's working with the guru and bringing out in the music the dimensions of life, that's a way we can interface. we were able to, from that music, you know, and Satori and Zen, a whole group of amazing yogis

0:09:44
with exceptional talent.

0:09:47
We were able to learn from that. That was our structure of learning meditation. And it was very helpful. And so, this is what we do. We develop ourselves and we become extremely strong in our power and then it becomes a service to others. So I'll just I mean, there's so many examples. But first I'll point out AppBuddy. It was our first successful yoga where we had a big acquisition.

0:10:23
We made software, we sold it,

0:10:26
and then we ended up selling the company. And because of that intense impeccability and capability of yoga, that's what brought us to the advanced teachings, our school. Or let's say, and that took a lot of business acumen, took a lot of experience. It took a lot of, you know, App Buddy. Who was in App Buddy? You guys became, you know, second, third, fourth degree black belts in yoga.

0:11:23
And I would also point out, like, let's say martial arts.

0:11:26
So we do martial arts here as well. I've done a little martial arts myself. And because I did martial arts and I followed my teacher's suggestions in martial arts, I've gained tremendously. And, you know, I have like seven black belts. And my highest degree in one is a seventh degree. It's like honorary. So I've done martial arts for a long time, and that was guided by my teacher. And I taught my students, and many of my students have black belts. And one of my students who has a black belt is Ahimsa. And Ahimsa, you know, came in here about this tall, 4 foot 11 or something, a little PhD in genetics or something like that, and was like, I don't know what I could do. And then Ahimsa became a black belt. And Ahimsa now is the sensei in Bodhi Woods, right? Yeah. So if you develop yourself, develop your skills, then you can help others. So Ahimsa, who is a which we would call it. But Ahimsa has skill. In our school, if you're going to get a black belt, you have to beat a black belt from another school. So Ahimsa had to fight some black belt from another school and win. So that's a real black belt. And him is now a sensei, teacher, in Bodogoods. So you've got to develop yourself to be super strong for you, so you're strong. And that's how you can have an offer and service to others. Now, martial arts is one thing, music is another, but another thing is technology. So Precia, for example, is teaching in Golden State. Precia, when I first met Precia, she didn't know a computer from a can of paint. But, um, but Precia focused on learning. And Precia, she learned well, became strong and capable. Prisha is a teacher, a teacher of technology. Prisha is a teacher of technology and so can I.

0:14:54
So can you.

0:14:55
So this is what we do for each other. We become strong for each other,

0:15:02
and powerful for each other. But we have to do the real job.

0:15:05
You gotta get it done. You can't flake. You can't be a miss.

0:15:21
You have to do the real work.

0:15:23
Okay.

0:15:24
So,

0:15:26
if you're, you know, a bunch of soldiers going into battle. I'm telling you that this is the time where it shifts from being bad to worse. And you gotta wake up and see what's happening before you're the frog who gets cooked by the French. I remember in the 80s they were all like, oh, the French, they eat frog's legs all the time.

0:16:04
I heard that all the time.

0:16:05
And then I started going to France

0:16:07
and I'm like, I've never seen any frog's legs. I see frog's legs in Chinese restaurants in San Francisco, but not in France. So, French songa, just bring it up. Okay, so, skills, upaya, skillful means. The skillful means for enlightenment, for relating to other people and sharing enlightenment. able to share power or enlightened teaching through her yoga of martial arts. The music yogis in Bayou and oh my goodness, Bodhi and great Mudra. and power because they are capable musicians. Bodhi and Mudra are professional musicians. They're the top of the top. They're the great of the great. And Bodhi is off the charts of great. So Preetha learned tech and she's teaching you tech. Precia, when I first met her, didn't have a job, you know, was stuck in all sorts of stuff of whatever a person gets stuck in. And then Precia focused, learned, and became great. And you all know that even if you're a bad student, Preisha's great and Preisha gives you the best. But if you're a bad student, stop being bad. Look at the heart of what Preisha's giving you, not just the tasks that she's giving you. And follow that. You're so fortunate to have a great teacher. and follow that. You're so fortunate to have a great teacher. And in martial arts, I have several senseis who teach you. I don't know if we have online classes. We should, and you should follow them. Yeah, Raja, okay. Raja's teaching online. If you were in a martial arts class, but you stopped going because we stopped meeting in our dojo, take the online class. Do it. Like if you were close to your next belt ranking, do the classes and train every day because you can you can achieve and get to the next level. Manjushri and Zochi are teaching too? Zochi!

0:19:18
Yeah!

0:19:19
Alright!

0:19:20
And Manjushri.

0:19:21
Those are some bad ass... What you saying?

0:19:28
Yeah.

0:19:29
So, we have some, we have senseis. Great senseis. And they teach martial arts. And we have great music yogis who share dimensions of light in music, or dimensions of power, or places that are helpful. So these are great. out of impeccability and skill. You have to have skills to do it. If everybody was like, yeah, I took three years of violin, forget it. You're not gonna write a song. Now you can play a song that everybody thinks sucks. These are people who've got mastery. Mastery. I remember Mudra said, I'm like, I don't know. I'm like, I'm trying to do some music. I think I'm, you know, intermediate in my skills. And Mudra was like, you are excellent at songs, at melody, at song structure. I was like, what are you talking about? I'm just a little bit okay. I'm working on it.

0:20:55
Cause I'm okay.

0:20:57
But he, he pointed out that I just have a, you know, because my mother had me playing since I was a kid and listen, and I used to listen to classical music a lot. into it that I have some kind of strength just like in martial arts. I started a little karate, a little kung fu, and then I became very strong in martial arts to where I can teach martial arts. I could teach music at a very basic level, but Mudra and Bodhi are able to teach at a very high advanced and spiritual level. So they're working with people who are great practitioners of music. They're amazing at their instruments, they're amazing at certain aspects of music, and they're able to bring them up. Bring them up in a in a way of yeah first attention but mostly the dimensions of light. So this is something that's been very very very helpful. Now you, especially you who are learning technology, this is your time. This is your time of times. It's the time of the warrior. So if you're learning technology, it's make it or break it. It's gonna change massively from this point forward.

0:22:50
And so you can't,

0:22:51
you can't have self doubt.

0:22:54
You can't have

0:22:55
your weirder

0:22:57
ideas. You have to look at what's solid and what's true. I would say to you, can you write an amazing beautiful meditation song? No. Can you do a spinning hook? Can you be like powerful martial arts? No I didn't do that either. You know what did you do? Well I did whatever you thought, I'm trying to draw you out of karma into something more

0:23:44
powerful.

0:23:47
The disciplines of the school are things that help you in life. And if you do your own way, whatever the heck you want to do, it'll probably draw you off of the path. probably what's common is suffering. So these are things, the things that we teach here are powerful and strong and uplifting. And a lot of the things that you are in your mind, they're things that don't help you. You gotta break out of your karma and get into a stronger position of Dharma. So this school, it's not a school of a bunch of losers. Like, you know, I'm a sensei and I'm not going to teach a school who are going to go into a world, like if I'm teaching in New York, the Bronx, or San Francisco, or in any city in America, because it's crazy. If I was teaching in Sweden, we'd all be going, no one's going to get in a fight. We're not Vikings anymore. Okay, but in America, and things are real. So, no, in America, and I've been through it, I'm gonna teach what helps you, what saves your life, in meditation and martial arts. So we gotta be real about things. So you can't be like all fancy. Oh, I think everything's gonna be fancy. Oh, I think everything's gonna be fancy.

0:25:40
No, no, it's gotta be real. It's got to be real.

0:25:42
If things are hard, then it has to be hard. I'm not going to teach a dojo full of people who are going to be playing games. I'm going to teach them the art, is the essential art of self-defense and helping others to defend their lives. And sometimes that means you gotta destroy someone else, Blutar. But mostly it means defense. In Jiu-Jitsu, someone has intense energy, you put them down like Bluetar I did with the demon king you don't have to kill him you have to subjugate them and I know lots of wrist locks for that so you have to be strong this is the time this is what a warrior does. A warrior becomes strong, focuses, and says, oh, okay, I'm a big slouch, I'm a big, you know, loser, I like to like just Netflix my life away or something, I don't know, you know, like, or like I have these weird ideas. You're not, it's not gonna happen. Look at the world.

0:27:16
Look what's happening now.

0:27:18
You need to wake up. You can't be a okay person. You have to be a warrior, a strong person, an impeccable person. If we had okay music, it would be garbage. But we have yogis in our music who are extremely skilled, many years of practice.

0:27:42
And that's why there's light,

0:27:44
because they can connect to it. You gotta do that. Preisha, tech teacher.

0:27:49
Himsa, martial arts teacher.

0:27:52
When you become powerful, you succeed yourself, but you also create success for others. That's your service. That's your offering. Once you're powerful, you know, like I could be like a martial arts guy myself and be like, I'm not going to teach you, but I taught all of my students, all ST3s and 4s. Not just doing it for myself. I mean, I'm good, but I want to be good so I can help other people be good. And that's what the musicians do. I mean, how many of you know music?

0:28:39
Music is magic.

0:28:41
and these musicians they make enlightened magic in their music. I mean some of it sucks but that's things we're working on. But what Mudra and Bordy do never sucks. The rest of us we're working on it just like you. Some of you suck at tech so there's pretty much half of you who are doing tech classes are doing horrible and bad and If you continue to do that You're gone because you're not impeccable You need to look at the leaders Who succeed here and you need to look at your peers who succeed. So if you look at like Ahimsa, she's strong because she succeeded, she's a warrior. If you look at Mudra or Chi or Bodhi, who's great, they are leaders. If you look at Presha or Kali, they are great leaders of or colleague. They are great leaders of technology because they succeeded. You can't not, you can't fail. If you fail during this time, this is the time of the warrior, and if you're not going to step up, you're going to fail. And the people who step up are going to be great, and if you fail, you won't be great. You will be somewhere. And it's going to happen because half of you are failing in your tech classes. And if that's the case, that's your choice. And that's a sad choice. Look at the winners. Look at the heroes here. We have heroes of Dharma. The hymn says a hero. Preach is a hero. Kali is a hero. Bodhi, a hero. Did you hear his music? You know, Mujer, a hero. All the musicians, a hero. This is a school of victory and if you don't want to be victorious You're not gonna be you're gonna fail out you're gonna fail out in terms of Anger

0:31:25
Sadness

0:31:26
Now listen to me. I'm telling you no. I'm telling you. I know I know what you're going through Anger. I understand. I used to be angry all the time. But the Dharma brought me through it. Sadness.

0:32:05
Feel the sadness.

0:32:08
Struggle. Doubt.

0:32:10
These are the things we go through. And if you go through that, it's understandable. I mean, this is a crazy world. But if that's where you stop, if that's where you want to go, you say, I want to be angry. I'm going to stop with anger. I can't stop my anger. I can't forgive. I can't let go. Well, then that's your choice. But you're never going to be great. Let me tell you a story of great. Yo-Yo Ma is one of the most famous cellists, cello players of the past, you know, 20 years. And he's a great musician. When he was young, his mother was like, play the cello. He's like, okay. And then as he grew up, he wanted to go outside and play baseball with his

0:33:27
but...

0:33:29
...... You can't see this.

0:33:35
Okay, and then he went out and

0:33:39
played with his friends

0:33:41
and then he said, you know what?

0:33:45
Mom was right.

0:33:47
Playing the cello is more powerful than goofing off with friends. For a while he had to not do what he wanted to do and then he could look out and do things that all the crazy kids were doing. He's like that's just wild but this discipline, structure, something that luckily my Is that? And he became a great, amazing, teleplayer. So we have to know what's powerful. Being a goofball, going out and engaging in Applebee's, I'm gonna give a reference to a movie. I'm just gonna say the movie name. It's called I Heart Huckabees and you should watch it. But I'm gonna give a reference. Americans going out to Applebee's. And I've already told you what Applebee's is.

0:35:05
It's a contrast.

0:35:06
So a movie reference is Huckabees.

0:35:11
is... Suck a bee.

0:35:13
And, you know, watch the movie.

0:35:14
It's a great movie.

0:35:15
Maybe it's our next movie. So, you have to be aware and focused. You can't get drawn down into things.

0:35:18
You have to be aware.

0:35:19
And, you know, I think that's the thing.

0:35:20
I think that's the thing.

0:35:21
I think that's the thing.

0:35:22
I think that's the thing.

0:35:23
I think that's the thing.

0:35:24
I think that's the thing.

0:35:25
I think that's the thing.

0:35:26
I think that's the thing.

0:35:27
I think that's the thing.

0:35:28
I think that's the thing.

0:35:29
I think that's the thing. I think that's the thing. I think that's the thing.

0:35:32
I think that's the thing.

0:35:33
I think that's the thing. I think that's the thing.

0:35:35
I think that's the thing.

0:35:36
I think that's the thing.

0:35:37
I think that's the thing.

0:35:38
I think that's the thing.

0:35:39
I think that's the thing.

0:35:40
and focused. You can't get drawn down into things. You have to grow up from the hardship. It's very important. This is the the nexus. Alright so I don't I've got my Disney Princess Diary and in this diary I have special spiritual names for people. I've got my Disney Princess Diary and in this diary I have special spiritual names for people. But before we do that...




Transcribed with Cockatoo
