0:00:00
Hello, advanced students. All right, so, I would like to talk about being an advanced student and being successful in the pathway to enlightenment. So, Samadhi and Arunachala quit the school. Yeah, they quit the band. They said, I'm not playing backup keyboard for you anymore. Just kidding. So Samadhi and Arunachala, they're good. They got the advanced teachings. They did yoga. They did all the structures of the school. And I think they were successful in it. So they got their yoga rank black belts, got advanced teachings, did all the things. So both of them kind of wanted to go and become enlightened and just kind of do it on their own. And as an advanced student, you wouldn't be totally amiss for anything that you do. You say, you know what I want to do? I want to go to Antarctica and teach the penguins enlightenment. That would be totally fine. So whatever you come up with. So I'd have to say they have an honorable discharge. Like they did a good job and they learned a sufficient amount in the school to kind of do their own thing. And I'd also like to point out that there are advantages to be in a school and to have a teacher who's much more advanced than you. So one, you shouldn't feel bad about them. You can contact them. They're probably still going to be in the maha-sangha and maybe see them around and things like that. Who knows, maybe they'll come back someday or whatever. So you shouldn't have any negativity about that or any things like that. So in my book, they get a thumbs up. But I also tell you, there's other things about it. When you're in a school, it's stronger. All of the teachings, including the Buddha, talked about being in a sangha. And, you know, Samadhi, Sahaja, a lot of you went to her class, she talks about this thing called the spiritual ego, when you start to become an advanced student, or even in the first phase of liberation. So it's like, this self starts to say, you know what, I have to be enlightened, or something like that, which is the funniest thing. I have to be enlightened! I have to do it! And so that becomes an obstacle. But it's definitely a possible thing at the advanced level to say, I'm going my own way, and to go, and for it to be something that works for you, it's definitely possible. But I always get down to looking at it like a dojo. So you've got your fifth degree sensei who teaches you the final form, the secret kata, right, for your black belt. And then you go, all right, good, now I'm going to quit and do it on my own. It's like, well, the sensei could still give you corrections and help you and help develop you. All of the structures of the beginning teachings are still very important for the advanced teachings. So, it's like once you get the advanced teachings, the ego kind of goes crazy. So I was telling you guys, it's like, in a way you're like, I got the advanced teachings and they don't work, so now I quit." Right? So some people do that. They say, I wanted enlightenment until I got to the place where I could do it, and then I don't want it. So maybe you don't want it, or maybe you think, I've got to do it by myself, and that's what it's all about. But the beginning teachings are all the same things in the end. I mean, you got to look at me, Mandala, or Sananda. Many students, or Leela, right? We were doing yoga through our enlightenment cycle. We did yoga. Like, Mandala was doing the great math adventure up until her enlightenment. Well, I guess we started CDS. But we were sitting there doing the great math adventure. It was after my liberation. I was like, OK, you guys have to do something now. We're going to do like a children's math thing, like a Muppet show, pretty much. Because no one did computer programming at that time. And then Mandala was sitting there doing this with us and she's like, oh yeah, I could teach people with Java as well, and then we can make this a content management system on the web, which later became MyWebDB. So after her, so she was doing great math adventure and teaching beginners technology up through her liberation. And then after her liberation, she's like, got a code, she's got these guys' code, and we're gonna create myWebDB. So, you know, and Sananda was there with us, right? He was, he was, funny, we were doing New Media, which was the great math adventure. It was really fun. I'll share more of those stories with you sometime. But anyway, even in these advanced students who were going through the enlightenment cycle, who became liberated, they were hanging out with new loser slacker students. They were teaching them and they were doing yoga. They were being examples of yoga. And then through that process, they became liberated and then they kept doing yoga. So when we get to the advanced teachings, this is what I was telling you guys, you guys are like all or nothing. You're like, I'm with the advanced teachings and it either works or it doesn't work. It's not working so it doesn't work. I don't believe in enlightenment anymore. Or everything's garbage and I have to be enlightened myself. I've got to go my own way. Then you missed all the basic teachings. You missed the teachings on yoga, missed the teachings on selflessness, missed the teachings on Sangha. These are very, very, very, very helpful, supportive teachings for enlightenment. It's not just for, that's what you do in the beginning and intermediate. You do it in the advanced stages as well. Now it's totally true. You might walk out, go to a cave and become enlightened yourself. Totally true. You have the empowerments, you've been in the school, you've got your black belt in your yoga and stuff like that. So, yeah, you can take the teachings from the advanced teachings and you can go do it. So, Samadhi and Arunachala, they might do that. But it's not something I would recommend. As long as you have the opportunity to have a much more advanced teacher to help you, then it would be good to take advantage of that. So Rama gave us these empowerments for doing things like siddhas, these magical powers and things like that. you know, he gave them, and I was like, I don't know how to use it, right? And I was like, well, I'm really excited the more I could be around him, the more of these I could get, and the more I can learn to use them. But then he went away real quick. Now, if he was around longer, I would have been able to figure out how to use, how to advance faster. So, having your teacher available, it's like, I don't know how to explain it. Let's say jumping, spinning, kick, right? Like, all right, you've learned how to do a jumping, spinning, kick, but your teacher could do it really well, and you can do it maybe a little bit, but really could you do it in a fight and all that kind of stuff, you know? It's like the teacher could be like, now here. Even the example of the teacher, you watch and watch and you learn and you learn and you can like get better and better and better and better and stronger. So, um, I would recommend all of the beginning and intermediate and advanced teachings, and I would, I would warn against, you know, leaving and thinking you have to do it on your own, or thinking that you've got the advanced teachings and they don't work for you. So both, you know, months ago, both Samadhi and Arunachala

0:09:26
said that.

0:09:27
They were like, it doesn't work for me. Like, they tried to sit there and do the meditation, and they go, it doesn't work for me. And I'm like, it does work. And they're all, no, it doesn't. And I'm like, that's, so it's like, one, believe you can be enlightened, two, don't stop at anything, three, do this practice. And one and two are more important than three. If you just know that you can be enlightened, and you just don't stop at anything, and you just do this practice, then it happens. But if you say, the meditation doesn't work for me, and then all of a sudden you start to think all right So I've come through the school all the way up to the advanced point and I've learned this meditation and it doesn't work for me Then there's a problem then you've you've cut yourself off So Even if you're you're struggling with your meditation this meditation is magic It is it's extremely powerful and extremely amazing. And it might not seem that it works. You might be like, whatever your experience you're having, it actually doesn't matter. It matters that you believe you can be enlightened, that you don't stop at anything, and that you meditate as perfectly as you can. Like you become impeccable at meditation. Just do it. Just do all those three things and throw away the self. And then enlightenment happens. So we are in a very fortunate situation to have these teachings. For me, I learned it from an enlightened teacher and it was alive and powerful, but then I became liberated and I can share it with you. And now it went from that one guy telling me to me and multiple other ST1s and ST2s who took that same teaching and became enlightened. And I guarantee all of us sat there and said, oh, what the hell is this? Oh, I don't get it. We struggled with all that stuff too, and then we just kept doing it. And then now, you have the example of many enlightened teachers from this lineage who did this practice. And so I would just say, don't say, my experience is not enlightening. Because enlightenment exists, even if you, no matter what you say. So you have to get out of, I can't be enlightened. And you have to get out of, I'm going to settle for this experience or that experience or whatever. The teachings that I gave you are very pure, very powerful, and they work. You just have to let go. And additionally, without a doubt, definitely, when you're ready, when you have the right momentum, then I can give you very, very, very helpful teachings. Very helpful teachings. I like to see so much. And I see where you're at, even as advanced students, and I know there's things that I can do to help you, and I'm going to. So to say, I'm a brown belt, and now I have to go out and get my black belt by myself, when you have a fifth degree black belt teacher there, I don't think it's smart. It's not that you can't, you've gotten, you got the little enlightenment workbook, so you're like, I've got everything, I've done everything, I know what I need to do. And if you do that, you go, and you can do it. So Samadhi and Arunachala are okay. No matter what they do in life, whether they become enlightened or not, their life is going to unfold with Dharma, because they became advanced students and they got a lot of the transmissions and so they're okay. And hopefully they'll go out and say, you know, maybe they'll go, okay, I got to get rid of these thoughts and poof, become enlightened. But I wouldn't recommend it. I wouldn't recommend that way because I could see so many levels of where they're stuck and what their karmas are and I could help them work through it, but they want to go do it themselves, and they don't even see what I see. So I'm like, okay. I mean, you can do it. It's just that it would be easier, more helpful. But maybe it's not more helpful. If you get all like, this doesn't work for me, then you start building up walls between you and the Dharma. And then you start seeing me and going, I don't know, Sambara's just doing the same thing again. Sambara's just talking about the same things. Yeah, there's the light, but who cares? It doesn't really do anything. People start going into routine mind and karma mind and then they create a karma out of the advanced teachings and a karma out of enlightenment, and then it cuts them off from enlightenment. This is what they both did. But that's why they say, when you're on the pathway to enlightenment and Buddha comes along, you've got to kill the Buddha. And I'm like, that would be a bad idea. Don't do that. That's not the preferred way to do it. Maybe there's people who have to do that, but that's not the preferred way. The preferred way is to be with a teacher who's more advanced, learn from them, don't start putting them up on some pedestal, don't start saying, you know, they're doing whatever, I gotta go do me, you know. So if you have like a proper attitude towards spirituality, you become enriched by a more enlightened person. You gain from their wisdom instead of having to kill it or separate yourself from it. So, Samadhi and Arunachala, if they contact you, it's okay. If you bump into them at an ABS event or something, it's cool. They're good. So they definitely got a good thumbs up from participation in the school. They did a good job. And I hope that they go out and realize all this stuff and figure out their enlightenment. That would be really wonderful. And I think that they're going to do great things in the Dharma in the future. But I definitely don't recommend that way. I always like my story of learning etiquette at the New York Oyama Dojo. So this Japanese guy, Sensei Oyama, comes from Japan. He's like six, seven, eight, to get black belt. He's got this famous fight with him in a bowl, and he wins against the bowl. Anyways, he's this powerful teacher,

0:16:42
and he's teaching in New York.

0:16:44
And New Yorkers in the 70s, they didn't have any etiquette. They never heard of anything. They didn't even have the karate kid yet, right? So that wasn't a thing. So, so this one New Yorker is, Oh, I heard about this karate stuff.

0:17:01
I want to check it out.

0:17:02
And he goes in and then the sensei is like showing some technique

0:17:05
and he's all like,

0:17:06
Oh, that shit will never work in the street. You know, so he's like, he's commenting and the sensei goes, no it does work because look, da da da da.

0:17:16
And the guy goes, oh no, whatever man. Not in the Bronx.

0:17:20
And then he goes, yeah, yeah, that wouldn't work. And then sensei goes, yes it would now. Let me show you. So here, you punch at me and the guy punches at him. Sensei blocks and shows him. And he goes, yeah, that's because blah, blah, blah. Because that wouldn't work. And he goes, no, no, really try to hit me. Then the guy punches again. And then the sensei, you know, does the technique, you know, punches him a little bit so he feels that the technique works. And then the kid goes, he says like, oh, fuck you, that hurt, or something like that. And then the sensei decides to teach him a lesson about etiquette. And he goes, and the sensei goes, don't curse in the dojo, bam! And he hits him hard, right? And then he's bleeding on the mat and everything. And then the black belts have to clean it up. And so I'm all like, hmm. Now, that student never cursed in the dojo again. So, there's listening to the master and then there's learning way. This is one of my beginning teachings, right? I just like it. But it's true. You can go and try to figure out, you can get the Dhammapada and try to figure out enlightenment on your own. But if you have examples, if you can be brought up into higher states of mind, where karmas fall away, where you can see greater truths, it really helps. It really helps. So I would say, stay in a Sangha, stay with an enlightened teacher, do yoga, all the basics. All the basics, all the beginning It's really good. Yeah, but, you know, if you start building up in your mind, you're like, oh, no, this doesn't work. No, I disagree. No, I've got to do it myself. Then you're not actually doing the three teachings that actually bring enlightenment. jewels of Buddhism. It's not the Dharma and me. Right? In fact, we get rid of the me part. We get rid of the... That's the me. That's the me. But then there's the Dharma. There's and then the song. We'll do it Hungarian style, there we go. Okay, so I wanted to mention that Somali and Arunachala are totally fine, don't be weird about them, but there is a reason to be in a school, there is a reason to continue. And moreover, like Nalanda, this is where great masters of their own enlightenment, they were like, you know, Tulopa, this great root guru, taught Naropa. And Naropa became this fully enlightened teacher, teaching on his own, and then he was asked to join Nalanda. Because they were like, hey, wouldn't that be great if we came together? And then he was like, yes. So he came with all of his students and they entered into Nalanda. At the same time, there was Atisha, and Atisha became enlightened under a certain lineage of gurus. And then he came over and joined Nalanda. And so when you can be in a strong unity of enlightenment, it helps everybody. So if you're like, I'm gonna go be enlightened on my own, and then I'm just gonna do my own thing, it kind of reeks of self. So I wonder about that. And also, there's a way to do things that's powerful, but when you've benefited from a structure and then you cut yourself out of the structure, a way that it works is you're in the dojo, you develop yourself in a dojo, and then you get your black belt in the dojo. And then you say, before you, you might be a brown belt and say, I'm going to open my own dojo. No! Get your black belt. When you get your black belt, when you're enlightened, then you say, you know what? I want to go over to Philadelphia and open up my own dojo. I feel like, awesome, right? So there's a structure that works in Buddhism and spirituality, but also martial arts schools, where once you get to a certain level of performance requirement, you're strong enough, powerful enough, you can open your own school in another dojo, another karate dojo, another SKA dojo, right? In your system, you're able to open up another school, and you have a powerful connection through that structure. So this is what I would hope that my advanced students do is not like just go, I'm gonna go do what was my Joe Kwon Do, right? I'm gonna go do Joe Kwon Do, open up my own thing. You know, I got a, you know, whatever I learned, I'm gonna just like, and I also saw this thing on TV, so now I'm gonna make my own thing. Yeah, so that's very limited. When you have, you know, let's say, SKA, the foundations of power and structures, where you get your black belt in that, then you want to open up your own dojo. There's a whole structure for doing that. And then you bring these very powerful teachings. You don't say, okay, I'm opening up my SKA dojo, and also we're also going to do some you know, Judo Holmes or something like that. Or something you see on, you know, YouTube or something. So there's a power in taking the structures and developing them. Yeah, I was just looking at like Turiya, like, you know, Turiya created this wonderful Dharma center. And Turiya came out with this new thing, the Trikaya, right? Trikaya Buddhism. And I'm like, and you're like, you could say, well, isn't that totally different? Is that like she's making up her own thing? No. Like the Trikaya Buddhism is of this lineage. And like Agni Kala playing the drums, isn't that completely different? No, it's an unfoldment. So you can do different things, but it can't come from a place of ego. It has to come from a place where you're evolving. I mean, Mystic Scuba sounds really silly, too. We did scuba diving with Ram Rinpoche, yes, but also I did something a little bit different. I did a little bit of breathing with it. Took some of these ideas and said, hey, Ram Rinpoche always used to say that water detoxifies the aura. So diving detoxifies the aura. And then Ram Rinpoche also said, yeah, when you go down, then the aura of the world is further away. So he said those two things and then I investigated it. And I was like, well, the deeper you go down, it's easier for the Kundalini to come up. And then so it just kind of evolved a little bit into something different, something new. So, evolving the Dharma is always going to happen and new ways of Dharma will come through you and you'll do super cool things. But I recommend you do it in the way that Turiya did it, the way that Agni Kala did it, and the way that I do it. It's a selfless way, and cool things come out of it. Because if you do it in a self way, then you're just cutting yourself off from the enlightenment of the lineage.

0:25:56
Yes.

0:25:56
So, I guess the other thing I want to mention is Leela. So, Leela is a little bit separate. So she's not teaching anymore. So you have a freedom from that. You don't have these limited ideas that stop you, and you have a direct connection with eternity. It doesn't mean you're a good teacher. It doesn't mean So, even in the time of the Buddha, there were arhants who would defer to some other monks who weren't enlightened. They'd say, oh, would you teach on this subject? Because the other monk was a better teacher. Or sometimes there was an arhant, an enlightened student student of the Buddha's, who would run across a Brahmin who was really wicked smart and would talk to him and get him confused or something like that. It was a debate, right? So he was teaching an Arhant, a Buddha, and then a Brahmin came over who was smart and he debated him. He said, �Hey, but if you're saying that this is this� and then he confused the arhants, and the arhants was all, oh man, he comes to my classes, he embarrasses me in front of the people I'm trying to share the Dharma with, and I can't debate this guy, he's too smart. So then he gets this one other Buddhist monk, who's not enlightened at all, and he goes, but you're a good debater, so come over here and debate him on, you know Buddha's teachings, debate. So then the Brahmin comes over and goes, oh, when you say that there are four noble truths,

0:28:05
what about this?

0:28:06
There's a fifth one.

0:28:07
And then the Buddhist monk, who's a good debater, talks. So the enlightened teacher wasn't as good as another student who wasn't even enlightened. So being enlightened doesn't mean you're the best teacher, the best programmer, the best martial artist, the best yogi. It simply means that you've let go of the self. And it's a really huge and important thing for your personal happiness and stuff like that. But I was talking to Lila, because Lila was struggling, because she was making some mistakes with her teachings and things. And I said, yeah, I know. I'm like, this is a tough school because there are many people here who are more impeccable, who are better martial artists, who are better programmers, right? So you being enlightened doesn't mean that you're all of a sudden better than everybody at everything. So she was like, yeah, it's true. example, but she wants to do it in a constructive way. And her last four teachings, I was correcting her and going, oh my goodness, because they were difficult. Also when you become enlightened, you start thinking, everything's fine. Like, that happened will remember me in the beginning. I'm a life or death, yeah, either way. I can go either way. You know, stuff like that. So you become quite liberal about some things. Like, let's say, having demons present. Yeah, that's cool. So, yeah, so Lila was having demons, really, and it's true, demonic entities bothering her, talking to her, and she was all, you've got a good point, I'm going to tell this as a teaching. And I'm like, don't do that. I'm like, why would you do that? You're bringing their energy through. And so one of her last teachings was, her last teaching was with Arunachala. And I told her, you did not help Arunachala. I'm like, you made her more confused. And so, you know, so I was like, you can't do this. You gotta be a much better teacher. You have to have, you know, much more impeccability. So she's like, you're right, you're right. So she's like, I'm gonna back off. She used to like contact people and say, let's go meditate together. Now, so now she's not. She says that she will come back when she can do something helpful and make sure that it's positive. So Lila, the interaction with Lila is going to be through the Buddha Dojo. So she'll be doing classes through the Buddha Dojo when when it's appropriate and when she's ready. So Lila wants people not to contact her. She doesn't want to be harmful. Lila is, she's great, and if you're very advanced, it's really cool to be with her, but you have to be able to hang out with demons and be cool with that. Because Lila goes like all over the place. But it's super cool. She hasn't done that with you guys because she's always trying to hold herself back and trying to be structured. But her way is very like a roller coaster. And so it's super awesome. I really like it, personally. Personally, it's like my favorite. You know sometimes you're with Shiva, and Shiva's like taking you on some like, whoosh, he's like going over here, and then over there, and then over here. So Shiva sometimes goes on fast rides, but she goes, she's like, whoosh, whoosh, whoosh, whoosh. She's like dimension, dimension, dimension, dimension. She'll bring you into like this dimension of light, she'll bring you into a dimension of heaven, she'll come to a dimension of hell. No big deal to her. For her mind, both things are fine. And to me, I can see that. So when I have a one-on-one with her, I'm just like, wow, this is super cool. It's awesome, it's super bright and fantastic. But even advanced students, it'll throw off. So she did a teaching for the Hungarians. I'm like, oh. And then she did a teaching for some of you, and her last teaching was a one-on-one with Arunachala, and I was just like, I'm like, I think you really messed up. And I still think that. And I think the result was not good. So Leela, don't mess with her. Give her her space. When Leela comes back, she'll come back through the Buddha Dojo and she'll come back in a way that works with the new structure. Leela really, really, really has a good heart and really wants to help. It's just that she's all over the place, man. You got to be not only enlightened, that's good. Enlightenment's nice, but you also have to be a good teacher. And Rama used to talk about this too. He's like, just because someone's enlightened doesn't mean that they're going to be able to help you. They might be cataclysmically bad for you. Because for them, good and evil doesn't exist. So they'll tell you, yeah, jump into the fire. Everything's enlightenment. everything's enlightened then. And you're all like, ouch, the fire is burning me! And they're all,

0:34:08
just go with it, man. And you're all, what do you mean?

0:34:11
I'm cooking! And they're all like, and then you die and they're all, life and death are the same. And you're all, but I just burned to death! So, no, I'm serious. So, you know, just because you become enlightened doesn't mean all of a sudden you're the master teacher. You have to be very careful. So I kept talking to Lila about impeccability. Even if you're enlightened, you have to be impeccable. If you're enlightened and you're unimpeccable, then you could be confusing for people. So consistency, discipline, impeccability, these are very important. And I want all of you to become enlightened. And I just, I want all of you to become enlightened, follow the structures of the school and be very impeccable. Above all things, enlightenment and impeccability. So I think I was talking to some of the SD3s and I was like, I don't know. Like I'm helping all these people become enlightened, and then they'll become enlightened, and then they'll be like,

0:35:18
who are you people?

0:35:19
Are you weirdos?

0:35:22
But if you have infectability, then there'll be a beautiful harmony. Playing bongos in the desert, I'm down with that, right? You know, tricaya Buddhism is beautiful, right? So, it's like, all of the different ways that enlightenment unfolds through you, when you're impeccable, will be something that creates harmony. If you're not impeccable, then you can be harmful, even if you're enlightened. If you have primary enlightenment, you can still be harmful. So, impeccability is very, very, very important. So, Leela, don't contact her. She's going to interact through the Buddha Dojo, and then, you know, when things look better, she might, you know, contact you. But don't contact her. If she contacts you, it's okay, but don't go finding her. Leela, tell me something, Leela. Leela, I need to know. So Leela's going through a transit right now where she's got to become solid and impeccable and strong so that she can be useful. And I kept telling her, just sit in front of people and meditate. They can learn from your silence. And I'm like, and don't go, just stay in one dimension. So she's just all like, stay in one dimension. It's tough for her. Yeah. Anyway, so yeah. And then Samadhi and Arunachala, strong women, very, very successful in the school, so good yogis, and hope they go out there and kill the Buddha, do whatever, and become liberated. And we'll probably see them around. They're definitely upstanding citizens in the Maha And so they've got transmissions and everything. So all sorts of amazing things will come out of them. And then, you know, I definitely recommend enlightenment, the Buddha. I'm definitely, I know more things to help you. The Dharma, plunge yourself into the Dharma. Like, advanced students' teaching is so good. So the ones who have done the Wudang teaching so far, good for you. This is an amazing and powerful lesson and an amazing way for you to mature the Dharma coming through you. It's just really, really, really excellent. So participate in the Buddha Dojo as a teacher if you're an advanced student. If you do mentoring, we're probably going to have a mentoring sign-up list where you say, all right, I'll be willing to mentor three people or something like that. And then someone will email you and say, I feel weird, what do we do? And then you'll go, ah, yes. And then you practice, basically, so you really listen, you pay attention, see where they're coming from, and even if they ask ambiguous questions, you'll have a psychic energy of compassion, and you'll just say some word of dharma, and you can change someone's whole life. Really. Yeah. I was listening to this thing, some radio show, where they were interviewing this guy who started the first learning management system, forgot what it's called. And he was at first tutoring his niece or something, or cousin or something. He knew math, she was bad at math. And he said, the main thing was I was able to listen to her and see where she was coming from. And she thought poorly of herself. She thought, I can't do math. And then he was like, when he understood where she was coming from, he could show her like one thing in the physical with math. And then that changed the way that she thought about math. And then all of a sudden she thinks she's great at math. That's the same with Buddhism. So when you get like an email or a text or you're doing a Zoom with someone and they're asking a question, they might be very intellectual in their head, they might be very emotional, whatever. We're doing bodhicitta, so we're really listening to where their spirit's at. We're listening to the tonal of their question, but you're really listening to where their spirit's coming from. And then you'll answer and you'll answer with a way of tonal and impeccability, but from a place of compassion. And when you're answering with the tonal of our school and with the compassion of our school, I would recommend that every single advanced student does mentoring, and every single advanced student should at least do one teaching, a lojong teaching or some teaching somewhere in the system, just to do it. It's good for you. I'm like, it's good for you. It's good. You're putting power into the dojo. You're putting your power into the dojo. And it helps people. And that's what makes this dojo, you know, a dojo of compassion and enlightened power. That we work together. There's a strong structure. Like I could have like left Rama's structure. I could have said, yeah, Rama, whatever. It was cool. And I went through that thing through the 90s with him. And then I could go, but I really like Ramana Harshi. Maharshi or something. I could be like, oh, I really like Gangaji or something. And then I could have thrown away all these things. I could have cut myself off from them and been like, oh, I'm really into this now. And then I would have gone from learning all these things one way and then expressing something completely different. I might be an advanced person and then teaching a different way. But because Rama's school is powerful and successful and there's many, many structures in the second attention that once you're empowered you can utilize. Because I stayed in the structure, utilized the structure and developed myself in the advanced teachings after my teacher left the physical body, then I could be successful in many ways in teaching, much more successful and powerful than doing it on my own or going to someone who just got liberated for the first or second incarnation. So I highly recommend that you participate in these structures, that you develop yourself in these structures, and that you, instead of having to go your own way, you go the way of creating your own dojo, which is, it's your own thing, but you're using these structures. And then you'll get black belt students who create their own dojos. So we're, like I said to everyone, we're in this place of building, of swelling of enlightenment, which is true. Many of you will be enlightened and you will have students who become enlightened. And enlightenment tends to ebb and flow, especially in Akali Yuga, it might not go on forever.

0:43:39
The teaching will.

0:43:40
So, you know, someone read one of Buddha's teachings, right? Where Buddha said something and then Sariputra became enlightened. Now, no one else becomes enlightened except for Sariputra, 2,500 years ago. But we can read still those words that taught Sariputra how to let go of the self. And it gives you a little bit of enlightenment, gives you some insight, gives you a little bit of light. And so we have a special light and the videos that you guys do, the teachings that we make, everything that we're doing, it is something that's going to carry on as an enlightened, a legacy of enlightenment for this world. And then yeah, people, you know, in a hundred years will be looking back and saying, wow, look at those weirdos. Why are they dressed like that? I feel like they had something. There was some truth in what they say. So that's what we have for you. All right. I'd like to do a meditation with you. We're going to sit for about 10 minutes or so. And we're going to do a focus on the third eye. So, light focus on third eye. You can just look up here towards me or close your eyes. And let's begin. you

0:45:01
the the the the so So so So And I'm gonna be a better man Than I was when I was young And I'm gonna be a better man Than I was when I was young And I'm gonna be a better man Than I was when I was young And I'm gonna be a better man Than I was when I was young And I'm gonna be a better man Than I was when I was young And I'm gonna be a better man Than I was when I was young And I'm gonna be a better man Than I was when I was young so So easy so the the the the so the the the the the the the the so so so so so All right, wonderful. I think that all the teachers who have done the Lojong teaching so far have done a good job. So, the most important thing that I noticed from all of you is that you're transmitting the light. So, all of you have the transmissions, and when you're sitting there focusing on the Dharma,

0:49:58
the first attention, because you have the transmissions, then light comes out of you. And that's the most important thing. Because there's a lot of people who talk about all sorts of things about the Dharma. There's people, you know, there's monks, you know, there's swamis, there's people who have PhD, and this and that, and whatever. And they might have like a lot of good information. But what you have is you have these transmissions of enlightened teachings. So you've been given a door. It's like, here's your door, hold it. And that door opens up and then all light comes through. So you've done the work to develop yourself in the structures of the school to get the transmissions. And the transmissions mean that you can then be a doorway to enlightenment. That's the most important thing. So when you teach, you don't have to be super, like, you know, say something super interesting or anything like that. Be authentic. You know, like, talk about your stories. Like, you know, this is what I figured out and here's what I experienced. Things like that are very authentic. You don't have to be very logical and things like that. But when you're real and when you're, you know, you've got a tonal focus and you're talking about the Dharma, the light should come through you. And this is the case for all teachers so far. So, so far, good job. Now, the Teaching Council, it's a group of ST3s who I discuss with, you know, how people are teaching, and we will look at teachings and we'll give corrections. So, the Teaching Council will be getting back to all teachers and say, here's how you can improve. Here's what you did right and here's how you can improve. And then the way that they say you can improve might be like, oh my god, I can't believe you did this. And if that's the case, then you should be able to take it. Because even though your teachings are powerful, logical, and there's light coming through, there's always things to work on. You always want to make it better, make it stronger. So for example, let's point out a couple people, like Ra, right? So Ra had a very, very nice presence and the light comes through, so this is really nice. He had a good sense of humor as well, which is something I always like. Okay, but then he did a little bit of Aikido in the Taekwondo dojo. So I remember I was taking Taekwondo and there was this guy who was, you know, okay at Taekwondo. You know, he had a black belt and stuff, but, you know, like there were a lot of people in the dojo longer than him. But he kept on, in the middle of taekwondo class, saying, oh yeah, well, he would always call it, ah, kido. And ah, kido, we learned all this stuff. And I was like, seriously? You're talking about aikido in a taekwondo school? But it was funny because we'd be like doing some kicking exercise, and then he would like say, here, grab my wrist. And then he would do some wrist lock or something. And then for him, he was putting the things together. He was like, oh, so there's an energy even in kicking that is similar to what he learned before. But he kept on telling people in the Taekwondo dojo about Aikido and they were like, what? Now Aikido is very different. So the people in the Taekwondo dojo didn't understand it. Aikido has a lot more subtlety and sophistication than thrust kick, right? And so the subtleties people wouldn't really understand. And also they weren't really into that. They're all, we're into kicking ass. So that's why we're learning kicking. And then they would just, I remember watching them when he's teaching Aikido, they would just be like.

1:01:41
They wouldn't get it,

1:01:42
they would stop processing information. So Raj does kind of the same thing. So Raj's got like a black belt in Advaita, and he's got this background in it, many dimensions that he learned in it from his guru. And then so he's like, this is great, what do you guys think of this? And then what happens is people's attention shut down. So people in our school, we process certain techniques like in Taekwondo, and we don't know Aikido, and we don't do it so well. And so when you start talking about Aikido, people start crying. So yeah, so for Rod, it's very important to remember, remember when you're teaching on the dojo mat in this school, teach these things. Teach these dimensions. And then don't teach the Aikido. Now, you did something really good, which is, Ra was teaching the Advaita kind of thing, which was meaningful for him. For him, it's powerful, but for these people, the tension started going down. And then he brought it back around to, and then Ashan says, it's bad when one becomes two. So then he's figuring out how to bridge it. But the thing is that our students don't really get what you're bridging it to. So they only understand the thing.

1:03:11
Oh, wait.

1:03:13
So whatever you said before, where I was facing out, now he's saying this. Oh yeah, I understand that. So you have to, so this is all about you having to know your audience, right? So you're not gonna walk into a karate school and start teaching people Judo. It's not appropriate, right? So you have to say, my audience is this group. Or I have to bring up Kyoko for audience. So Kyoko, there's a couple mistakes. First thing he started with was, in our sangha it's important to do things about pronouns or something like that, which is not true. It's not something I've ever taught in the sangha. Now, the thing that I like about that was that you were making a powerful statement, but the problem with it was it came from self and came from your karma. So never lead with karma. Never bring your karma into a teaching, because then it confuses everybody. So you have to stick with the dharma and don't bring your karma into it. So let's see. There was this, I think it was a business meeting, and a woman walks over, and there's like four guys and a couple gals sitting down, and she walks over, and she meets people, and she says immediately, today is women's sexual abuse survivor day, and I have to leave early because I have to meet with my group." And then everyone's all, hmm, okay. And then she leaves. And then her friend says to her later, why did you say that?

1:05:05
And she's like, because it's true,

1:05:06
and it's important to me. That's who I am. She's like, but that makes you, you know, that, that, that lowers you. Um, that's personal. That's about you. It's not about why we're meeting. It's not about business. Um, but I want people to know who I am authentically and what's in what, you know, where I'm at. And she's like, but it's so off the subject, you know, why do you have to tell these guys this? So when you're leading with karma, we call this leading with your wounds. If you're talking about karma, you're sharing your wounds with people, it's not necessary. It's not what the dharma is about. That's about your stuff. So if you're leading with your ideas, your attachments, your karmas, and stuff like that, then your teaching is gonna be a little bit off. So the interesting thing that I thought Kyoko did was Kyoko brought it back to, okay, you know, when we're looking at what is real and what's an illusion, gender is an illusion, sort of. But the problem was that because Kyoko was confused So,

1:06:26
did that, check, but then, Kiyoko's leading with, able, something that, should work on, develop, you should be, do,

1:06:37
and teach,

1:06:39
from Nirma,

1:06:39
develop, you should do and teach from normal.

1:06:44
And,

1:06:45
the prominent group,

1:06:47
your audience don't know what the hell you're talking about. And they're all like, what's this, what's going on?

1:06:54
What are we talking about? Like, what's this important thing in the Sangha

1:06:58
that we don't know about at all? It's not in our, it's like, it's not a cultural conversation for us. So you have to know who you're talking to. Because if you're going to bring up a new thing, you have to explain what it means, which would have been the wrong thing to do, because it's all about your karma. Okay, and I'll also say, let's say, let's look at it like this. Let's say we had a Japanese Sangha that's coming in. And if I said, in our sanga, you have to get your L's and your R's right. So it's important. So you can't say Rari when you meant to say Larry. You can't say Rexis when you meant to say Lexis.

1:07:55
Rexis. I drive a Rexis.

1:07:58
And then, so you can't do stuff like that. So the Japanese students will be listening to that and they'll say, oh, many of them might have a confusion. A lot of my Japanese friends, when they would say L's and R's, they would get confused, maybe some of them half the time. And so if you say, in our sangha you have to pay attention to this, then they might feel bad about themselves. They'll go, oh, I make mistakes like that. And then, and so if you're making that, you're telling them that that's part of the school, the sangha, then that's not true, number one. Number two, you're not really helping them. You're confusing them. And then you exactly do that with the Hungarians. So the Hungarian sangha was on the call, right? And then the Hungarian sangha, you might notice that Hungarians, even in America, maybe the American, the ones who live in America, maybe 20% of the time, I hear them say, he instead of she, or she instead of he. Because in Hungarian, they have one word for he or she, right? So they don't say, so it'll be like, Raja, she's a nice guy.

1:09:21
They'd just be all, there's just the one word that means he or she.

1:09:25
And so people mess it up left and right. So the ones who live in America who speak English every day and everything like that. They mess up on it. Now you said this to a group of Hungarians who, you know, some of them barely speak English. And then, you know, they're gonna mess up on this word a lot. And so what you're doing is you're saying something's important where they make a lot of mistakes with it. Just like if you told Japanese people, L's and R's are really important for enlightenment, for the Sangha. So what you're doing is confusing them. And so that would be called racist. Because imagine if somebody said something about, oh, in our Sangha, Ebonics isn't cool. You can't do Ebonics. Then you would think it's racist, because you're black. And you'd go, whoa, that's racist.

1:10:24
You shouldn't say that.

1:10:26
I have to do whatever I want. Oh, you shouldn't say fins-ta here. No, fins-ta's not how we do things. Fins-ta is lower, fins-ta's wrong. It's not the Dharma. Oh, sorry, well, you know, and you go, I am going to do something, you should get it right. And then you go, well, that would be racist to say that to somebody who speaks the Bonics because that's their background. Well, you got to know who you're talking to and you got to know what you're talking about. And by the way, if you're talking about the dharma, it's always going to be good, but if you're leading with karma, then you're going to make mistakes. So these are things to work on. Not that either of your teachings are bad, it's just that your teachings can be better. And so by doing a teaching and by getting feedback from the teaching council, it's not to tell you that you're a bad, evil jerk. I mean, this is just one teaching out of many that you can give, but it shows you things about your mind. You doing a teaching is a powerful teaching. And I've got to say, Kyoko and Ra, you guys did great teachings. And you guys were bright. And light came through you and truth came through you. But just like I tell Lila, I gave Lila many corrections on her teachings. I was like, look what you're doing with the dimensions. Look what you're doing with the tension. Why are you bringing people over here? And she's like, oh yeah, okay. So this is a teaching on teaching. And even if you just get one Lojong teaching in there, the feedback that you're going to get from the Teaching Council is really powerful and really helpful. It's an enlightened teaching for you. It shows you a different dimension. But I have to say, All of you have done a really good job. Every Lojong teaching I've seen so far is, you're focused, your mind is engaged, you have the tonal, and light's coming through you. I just want you to be more impeccable, and that's why we have the feedback that's coming through the teaching council.

1:12:43
Ha-ha!

1:12:44
So go figure that shit out on your own.

1:12:47
You know?

1:12:48
That's the thing, you're like, well, I'm just going to go teach on my own, right? And then you'll just go and make all these mistakes, you know, and you'll be harming people and, you know, getting people all confused and upset. And I'm like, no, you have to, there are things that you can do to clean up your technique, to learn ways of seeing things more clearly, to be more effective, more harmless, more helpful. And these are ways that teach more enlightenment. But you don't know them off the bat, so there's refinement that you can gain. Okay, I want to thank you. I know there's other meetings coming up. So be well, and I'll see you next week.

1:13:31
See you again.

1:13:32
As I said last incarnation, see you again. As I said last incarnation, see you again.

1:13:34
As I said last incarnation, see you again.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
