0:00:00
Hello, welcome.

0:00:05
All right.

0:00:08
So, we're going to begin with meditation. We're going to sit for one song, and we're going to focus on the third eye. So, sit up nice and straight.

0:00:22
and let's begin.

0:00:23
So, So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So So so So You're my hero So All right. Wonderful. So, today I'd like to talk about the ways to get out of the trap of karma.

0:01:37
So karma is the universal law of cause and effect. You drop something, it falls. So it's like you take an action and there's a result from that action. Now, we all want to get good karma. So in the beginning and intermediate practices, we're trying to gain good karma. We're trying to do good things that have good results. And we're definitely trying to get rid of bad karma. Because when we do things that create bad results, it creates suffering. So this is all good, but in the advanced practices we want to extricate ourselves from good karma and bad karma because eventually even good Being caught in this causal pattern, this law that always has a yin and a yang, is definitely restrictive. It's something that holds you back. So our goal is to go beyond karma, good karma and bad karma. But especially, we have to really focus on going beyond bad karma, because in these degraded times, bad karma is very prevalent. The defilements of mind continuously create bad feelings and cyclic patterns of dark thoughts. So it's especially important to go beyond bad karma. That's the thing that actually causes the most suffering. So this secret for in Vajrayana Buddhism. It's a tantric Buddhist technique for extricating yourself from karma. Good karma and bad karma. But definitely, if you're suffering, you're suffering out of it. And it's an aphorism, a teaching, with the aphorism that says, don't believe result was caused by the action. So I just told you the law of karma, an action has a result but this tantric Buddhist secret teaching to overcome karma says don't believe that the result was caused by an action.

0:09:19
So it's kind of opposite.

0:09:21
And yet, it's true. So, when we look at a situation that caused us suffering, suffering. We'll say, ah, I have suffering here. And then we'll say, what led to that suffering? I did this, I did this, I did this, and then, bam, this suffering happened. And then if you're a smart person, you learn your lessons from what happened before so that you don't do the same mistakes in the future. And then that's good. You're getting rid of the processes of acting in bad karma and you're starting to do things that create good karma. But you're still locked is not to believe it. It's not to believe that an action creates a result. And I'm really focusing on negative results. You have to look at the hard, difficult realities of your life. Because this teaching, it's more actualized when you have some suffering or some hardship, when you get in touch with your pain, your difficulty, and your bad karma. And you say, wow, I have these bad thoughts, I have these bad feelings, and where did they come from? They came from somewhere. I did this thing, and then it made me sad. I did this thing, and it made me mad. Or someone did this thing and then I got mad. So we're focusing on your life, your suffering. So you have to have a recognition that for your suffering, when you do the tail of the tape, recapitulation, looking back at what led up to it, there is a causal path that came to create that result. I did this, then that happened, then this happened, and now my result is suffering. That's what we want to see. But then we have to apply this tantric Buddhist secret, which is to look back at the things that you did that led up to this cataclystic, horrible experience and you say, those things were okay. I don't believe, I don't believe it that it created this result. I don't believe it. It's unbelievable. So how do you do that? That's a big question. Because the law of karma is for real. You know, if you pick up a pen or something and you drop it, that's a physical karma. You say, how could that not be real? You know, I drop something on the ground, boom, that's karma. Yeah, that's karma. physical karmas are also negotiable. I know it sounds weird, but it's true. And that's why you can hear of great enlightened masters or siddhas who can do something like levitate. They can float up off the ground. And that means that gravity isn't true. That goes against karma. So everything that we know from our life, our life lived experiences, they're not necessarily true. They're true in a certain context. And this is an advanced kind of teaching. If you're a beginner, yeah, you have to get it straight, figure these things out, get, you know, like stop making bad karma, start getting good karma. But if you are advanced, you can start looking at the big picture. and even things that are physical karmas are things that can change. There is a healer and a Qigong practitioner I know, Master Li, Los Angeles. And he has this inner power of the heat. And so, it's on YouTube. This guy is showing us what he can do. He takes a metal chain and puts it over heat until it's white hot. And then he breaks it with his hands, holds it with his hands, even licks it and breaks it in his mouth. And so that's something that would burn us. But it doesn't burn him. He has, even though it's a physical karma, skin touching heat will boil, right? But he has this ability where it doesn't hurt him. So even physical karmas, masters who can levitate. You drop something, it burns. And then the master touches something that's hot, there's no burn. This goes beyond even physical karma. So, this is the case. So, when we think of karma, we think of just very simple results. You do one thing and of course you drop something, it falls down. It doesn't have to be that way. It can be more optimistic, like the Buddhist masters. You think, you know, karma is when you do something, there's a result. So, like, what happens if you mix human DNA with killer whale DNA? You get completely banned from ever entering SeaWorld ever again. That's karma. You drop a pen, a pen falls. That's karma, right? So we want to understand that there is karma, but there's ways around it. That levitating master, the master who can touch the heat that would burn you and have no problem. What are those lights? And I'm talking about the physical way to get out of the karma of gravity or getting burned, but also I'm talking about the spiritual and that spiritual burn so that you can be enlightened, spiritually free. So when we look at the past, we say, why do I have some suffering here? And you'll look at your history, your personal history, and you'll say, I have it because of this, this, this, and this. And in the beginning and intermediate study, it's very good to understand those patterns and to start working to elevate yourself, empower yourself, and you have to look at those things and say, I don't believe it. They have that Ripley's Believe It or Not. Ripley's I don't believe it, that's this teacher. So the thing is that you have to come to a point where you don't believe it. So the master who can levitate, like my teacher, was very strong in the powers of levitation. So my teacher could walk up on air and came up on air and yes, there's gravity, but somehow He had the power and awareness to defy gravity. It's just the most common thing. You drop something, it falls. A master can levitate. can overcome the trap of karma. And there are ways to develop it in the physical, the most essential way is to have a recognition in your mind

0:19:54
that you don't believe it.

0:19:57
So when you look back at your past mistakes that came to your current suffering, you have to say, I don't believe it. Because what you did actually doesn't have to result in your suffering. What you did could be okay. So, you have to understand these things. Let's take texting and driving. Has anyone here ever done texting and driving? Yeah, I'm guilty of it. I did texting and driving in lots of circumstances. Students are like, oh my gosh, I have this problem. And I'm like, well, you know, I'm driving to Bodie Woods, but I can still have a conversation with you. And Bodie Woods is a windy road. So I've done it, and probably a lot of you have. Now, I read a story recently of an accident where there was this guy, a nice guy, he worked He was very positive. He just married his wife. They had a baby, and he was happy in his job. She was a school teacher. He was a nice guy. They were building a family. They were doing everything right. They were positive. Everything was great. And he was driving home from work, and on the way home from work, his wife texts him a picture of the baby and says, hey, what do you want for dinner? And he's, you know, like we all do, or like some of us do. Don't do it. He texts her back, sees his baby, he's so happy, he's involved in the conversation. And then he goes boom boom boom boom boom boom boom. What happened? He killed four people. It was a family of four. He ran through a red light and he killed them. Because he was doing something on his phone where he brought his attention away and he was helping his family, he was just building that big dream. It was all positive. He was engaged in a positive communication. They killed a family of four. So we can say to him, you're horrible. You need to be put in jail for life. You killed four people just because you're being a jerk. You weren't paying attention or whatever. You killed people. You've got to go to jail. And then for this guy who's in prison right now, he's got to look back on it and say, I made a mistake. I was horrible. I was a terrible person.

0:24:08
And that's the way that we look at our lives.

0:24:11
We get to a condition of suffering and of something bad. And karma, the events drove us there. And we say, it's horrible, this is bad, I shouldn't have done this, I shouldn't have done that, I shouldn't have done this, because then now, bam, I created a mess and suffering. However, I would have to say this, for any of you who rose your to do texting while driving. I could also say, you could have done the same thing. You could have hit a person. You took your attention off the road. Person could have walked out from nowhere. You might have hit them and killed them. and then you would look back to what you did and say, I messed up. I shouldn't have done that one text. Because 10 seconds or five seconds or three seconds of a text and a person walks out. If you were driving and you were watching, that person comes out and you go, whoa, what are they? But three seconds of answering a text, BAM! What did I do? I killed that guy. So what I'm saying about karma is we all have committed the problem. We took our attention away. We didn't do the right thing. And when you're driving a car, you can kill people. That's a four-ton killing machine. So, I mean, if you wanted to use it that way. So, if you in your experience have done things where you had a little bit of negligent focus, you weren't impeccable, but you're a nice person and you're just trying to get by and do the good thing. Maybe you're texting about feeding people, helping people. Maybe you're texting about helping Mother Teresa. It's like, oh, I'm going to help all the children in Africa.

0:26:51
Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom,

0:26:53
all the children, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom.

0:26:56
All right, yeah, I'm gonna help the children. And I just killed like 10 families. So, but honestly, it's your intent at the moment. Do you intend to kill those people? Even if you have a sloppy attention, do you intend to kill those people? No. You're not a murderer. But, after you kill them, life has ended. And everyone says, you're a jerk, you shouldn't be able to get out of jail. Because you killed a family of four. That's the world. That's karma. And you would say, oh my god, I really wish I didn't look at my phone. I wish I put my phone in my purse and left it there and then these people would be alive. But you're looking back. If you look at that state of mind that you were in, you were not bad. You were not bad. You have to get back to the state of mind that you were in. And you have to get to that point where, what is it where there's options? Because when you look back at it, you don't have to have the karma that you have now. Just like, I'm driving, texting on my phone, and I keep driving. I didn't hit people. The past doesn't lead to the moment. This is the It is what it is right now. Are you mad?

0:29:10
Are you angry?

0:29:12
What's going on? You know, you've got a situation right now. If you start to say, here's how it happened, then you walk out of Zen, you walk out of Tantric Buddhism, you walk into, you walk out of enlightenment and you get into the story of the past. You get into, if there's a past, there's no present moment. So, Zen, or Vajrayana Buddhism, is the present moment. How am I here? I'm here right now. And do I have pain? If I have pain, it's here right now. If I look at the past that caused my pain, we have this addiction to the past that caused our pain. That you don't believe. You say, good story, nice story. Thanks for telling it. But that's not true. Truth is now. Right here. It's not what happened when you're 14, you know, when something bad happened to you and then it made you do something else and then do something else and do something else. Truth is here right now. So we have to say, I look at the past and I don't believe it. And I have to look at what's here. And that frees you from karma.

0:30:57
Karma is all about the past.

0:30:59
Karma is all about personal history, the past, what you did, how you messed up, how everything went sideways. In high school, my first girlfriend, you know, all that stuff. All of that does not exist in this dojo. It doesn't exist in this moment. What happened before. To extricate yourself from the suffering of bad karma, you have to say, I'm responsible in this moment. I'm responsible right now. I'm responsible here. did two weeks ago when they found a problem that I did somewhere. You know, you did that, but you have to live in the moment. This is the teaching of enlightenment for criminals Buddha taught this teaching to a guy in India who was a bad dude. He had a necklace, I have a necklace, a lovely necklace, but his necklace instead of beads, it had fingers of his victims. He killed many people. And Buddha taught him this, you have so much bad karma, but there's a way out. Everything that you did before was before. And now you're here in this moment. And you can transcend that karma. And he did and he became an enlightened arhat

0:33:16
So anything that you've done

0:33:19
Pretty sure you guys haven't had finger malas So But anything Possible any karma and difficulty negativities you can let it go. And be in the moment and attune yourself to the Dharma. When we look back, that's where we find suffering. So karma is a beautiful thing. It tells you, do good things and good things will happen. And karma from an advanced stage, if I did something where I'm suffering, I gotta look back and have to say, that doesn't exist. I'm here now. This is the moment.

0:34:18
This is reality.

0:34:19
It's very important. important because when you do good, even bad things can happen. You could do the best, brightest, most righteous things with the greatest integrity and things can't work out My example of this is Kodak.

0:34:51
Kodak.

0:34:52
Do you guys remember Kodak? Kodak, what a name, was a huge photography and film making company. Because from the early 90s, or maybe the late 1800s, till the late 90s, it was all about film. And they were the film experts. They were good at it. They had good, a great positive film focus, acumen, impeccability. They were the best in the world. And their company was positive, strong. Everyone was happy. It was a beautiful corporate culture. Everything was positive, positive, positive. But then there was a disruptive industry that they didn't see coming, which was smartphones, right? Boom! I got my pictures here. Why do I need to pay so much money for film? And that hit them so hard. And even though there are these great people, wonderful people, they got decimated. Their business got 97% destroyed. They were a good business of good people, doing good, everything was super positive. They didn't earn bad karma. So if we look at our industry got destroyed, what was our bad karma that led up to it?

0:36:53
Nothing.

0:36:54
You had good karma. Good karma.

0:36:57
And your business is done.

0:36:59
Or it's destroyed. So you can be good people and do the right thing and it doesn't work out. And I just have to say Buddha and Jesus. Let's do Buddha first because he did a little bit better. Buddha was a good guy and he taught good positive teachings and some people didn't like it. And so there were three assassination attempts on Buddha in his lifetime. He survived them. But people tried to kill him. Jesus, good teachings, all enlightenment, all good. died on the cross. Right? So, even the best people can experience pain and hardship and difficulty. So, it doesn't mean that if you're good, it'll work out. Buddha, three attempts on his life. He luckily got through them. Jesus was a good guy. And he was killed. So, just because you're good, and that's the common thing. If I'm good, something good is going to happen to me. Not necessarily. Kodak was good and something totally changed and then they suffered. And also, bad can be good. So there's this great story of Richard Montanez. So he was born in East LA, Mexican immigrant or his parents were immigrants. And he got into gangs, got into fights, went to jail a lot of times, and then finally he got a job as janitor working for Frito-Lay, an American potato chip company. And he's at Frito-Lay, and then there's this one thing called Cheetos, Cheetos. It's like little potato chips, corn puffs, with a little cheese flavor on it. Cheesy corn yumminess. Okay, and he was working in this Cheetos plant and he had this horrible background. And so, at the end of his shift, he noticed that some of the Cheetos did not get cheesed. They just had plain Cheetos that they were going to throw in the trash. He's a janitor. He got a janitor job there. So he's like, I'll just, a janitor that scoops things up into trash bags and he put it into a hefty trash bag and he'd bring it home. And then his girlfriend made some pretty good like spicy salsa and then she would put it on that and he started selling it to the Mexican-American community. He's a bad dude and he's stealing from his company and then he starts selling it and making money. And everyone's all, man, that's good. These hot Cheetos are the best. And it was selling and selling and selling and selling. And then one day he was stealing from his company, something that they were going to throw in the garbage. And he was a gang band in the background. But he saw something that worked. So one day he got on the phone and he called the CEO of Pepsi that owned Frito-Lay. And he said, and somehow he got him on the line. He said, I got this thing for you, man. And the CEO flew from, where was it? Somewhere in New York. And he flew from New York. I should have learned from somewhere in Westchester, New York. He flew out and then he goes to this place and he tries them. He says, wow, that's really good. And then there's like massive Pepsi and Fetal Lane marketing executives there. And they're like, what do you think? I mean, like, yeah, it's spicy. Yeah, it tastes good. But like, who's going to buy this stuff?" And then he stands up and he's like, do you know how many Latinos are in America? He's like, they love this stuff. He's like, this is going to open 40 million new customers. And then the marketing executive scoffed at him. And then the CEO said, don't you guys get this? And he's like, it's gonna be, and he did the same, the same mood trip. 49. And then, so the CEO bought this idea. And have you guys ever tried Hot Cheetos?

0:43:11
Try it.

0:43:12
This is the result. It is hot. It's really hot. But anyway, this was a bad guy. And he was then a janitor and he stole the product to bring it home to put a little spice And then he just called the CEO and now, you know, Frito-Lay and Pepsi makes billions of dollars on this product because it's really good. I like to put it in a bowl and squeeze lime on it because if you eat it with your fingers you get those super red spicy fingers and you have to like do that I'm like I'm not into that but if you pour a little bit of lime on it and you just eat it it's really good there's other ways to probably like oh there's the oh there's New Mexico, it won't taste that good. In New Mexico, it's good. Anyway, so, if you're good and you do everything right, you can still succeed. So, karma is not a stable force. It's a shifting force. There's right and wrong, and then there's wrong and right. And it all follows the Dharma. This is the most important thing, the Dharma. So when you don't believe the ups and downs of reality, then there's Dharma. And the key humility, innocence. When everything's happening around you and you're a baby or a young, young, young child, you look at everything happening, you don't know what's going on. You can't say, I know that that means this. That's called innocence or humility. So if you don't know that dropping the thing means that it falls down and breaks. Take an egg, drop it. You guys all think, is it going to break? And what you guys are looking at is a mental concept. But an egg can fall and it might not break. In a child's mind, they don't know what's going to happen when the egg falls. And if you can be innocent and humble about your personal history, about your previous karma, you can be free from it. You're free from it. Spiritually free. You have training of the first attention and second attention. You have the training of the introduction, beginning, and intermediate teachings. This is an advanced teaching. It's knowing that if you drop an egg, it doesn't fall, it doesn't break, it doesn't have to. You have to forget about the past. Forget about the past. There's this thing we attach to ideas based on one little thing we bought into and we keep working through it. It's something called the sunken cost fallacy in economics. The sunken cost fallacy is, well, I bought this boat and then there's a hole in it, so I got to fix the hole. But then there's another hole and boats, we have this joke, what do you call a circle in the ocean, we throw money into it and then nothing happens. And I go, I don't know what, it's a boat. Boats cost a lot of money to maintain. Like, you get a bad boat, there's a Gary Oldman movie about a bad boat, I think it's called Mary.

0:48:31
You should see it if you like.

0:48:32
There's a bad boat, and you just throw money into it, fixing it, fixing it, fixing it, fixing it, you're always fixing the boat. And you're like, whoa, I like going out to the ocean, but do I, like, the money that it costs, I mean, could I just be happier without that stress? So if you put $10,000 into fixing that boat, and then that boat's going to cost a million dollars to fix in the next 10 years, if you just keep going moment by moment, you're just fixing by fixing, you are going to have 10 years of trouble. But if you could say, you know what, I thought it was going to be a certain way, I put a little bit into it, and then there's more of a problem, and you cut it off, you've saved yourself 10 years of suffering

0:49:38
So it's like

0:49:40
Back when I was a kid, I used to watch a TV show called happy days and Happy days has the Fonz a Richie Cunningham and This might be way old for a lot of you, but I watched every episode and I was so interested in it. So interesting and so cool, funny, interesting, what a good drama and everything. And I watched and I watched and I watched for years. And then they got to this one episode where Fonzie, the coolest, awesomest character, was, I think they were in a lake, like Lake Superior, and he was boat skiing, is that what they call it? He was like on skis, and a speedboat was taking him around. And then, in the lake and then he jumped over the shark. And I was like, why is there a shark in the lake? And how did he jump over the shark? And I'm like, that's Fonzie, and you know, this like inner city, like tough gangster guy. And I'm like, wow, that was weird. But later on, they created this term for when a TV show does that, it jumps the shark.

0:51:22
You guys might know that.

0:51:23
It came from Happy Days, and I saw that episode, and I was just like, wow. It's like, it used to be a great TV show, and Fonzie was so cool. Everyone liked Fonzie. It's like one of the coolest characters on TV. And then all of a sudden he jumps the shark, and you're like, oh my gosh, I don't know what to believe anymore. And then I kept watching Happy Days, and I was just like, after Fonzie jumped the shark, it's not interesting anymore, it's weird. And the writing and everything was not good anymore. And then I had to say, even when I was 12 years old, I'm like, am I going to invest my time and attention into this anymore? Because it was good for a while, but now it jumped the shark. So that's what you have to look at. Most people will keep watching. They'll know that the series jumped the shark. They'll know that it's not as good anymore. And yet, because they invested so much time, they just wanna see what's going to happen. They're just going to be attached to doing something that they don't like. They don't like it, but they have an attachment to it. So, once things jump the shark. And now I've got to look back at my karma and it's like, yeah, okay, there was a lot of tight things happening, but now there's got to be this loose part where it's not good anymore. And don't waste your time and energy on it. You have to say, once something, a pattern, and karmas are patterns, don't work out. You have to say, am I happy doing it? Or would I be happy letting it go and doing something else? These things just perpetuate and then you're stuck. So once something, when there's no fire in it, when there's no light in it, when it's not up to your new level of awareness because you've been meditating, because you go to a place of power, because you do a scuba dive or something, you know, when something's not up to that, you know, that whole series has jumped the shark and you're at a different level and you should not continue to waste your time on it. So in conclusion, don't believe it. When you think back about something that happened and you say, well all of this is leading up to my misery, don't believe it. If you don't believe it, you're free from karma. This is a very high level of talking because if I'm talking to beginners I'll say, don't believe it. If you believe it, you're stuck. And especially advanced students, if you have pain, if you have suffering, then that's where you need to don't believe it and you'll see that you're Alright, thank you all very much. Now we're going to sit in one last meditation. And I'd like you to look up to me, focus on the third eye, and we're just going to sit for a couple minutes. But this is the energy that lifts you above karma. You don't believe anything. You don't believe the stories of the past to tell you that it created this present moment. This present moment exists as it is. And there's And be humble, and be innocent. Humility and innocence in the present moment is free from karma. So we're going to sit, focus on the third eye, just a couple minutes, we're going to sit in silence, and this is this transmission free from karma. free from karma.

0:56:51
Okay. Okay. So, Okay. Very good. Alright, thank you all very much. Alright, thank you all very much. Be well.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
