0:00:00
Welcome everyone.

0:00:02
It's good to see you. Many journeys have brought you here. All right, wonderful. So, let's just take a moment to appreciate this place. This is a place I've often said is my place of adolescence. My favorite spot, very close to where I was born, a place where you can see the ocean and the sunset in the sky. And also, nice view of the city, probably the best view of the city that you can get. A very beautiful place where we are. The energy of this place is very powerful. It's a place the Native Americans always said it's a special place, a sacred place, this mountain, the top here where we are. It's a very special place and I'm very happy to come here to this beautiful place that I've loved my whole life before we move to Hawaii. And even if you live here, it's good. It's powerful here. Everything's great here. And if you live in Hungary, in Paris, in Iceland, these are wonderful places to be. But spiritually, we're making a shift to Hawaii and it doesn't diminish this place because I love this place. It enhances this place. So I always used to say I came here as a high school student

0:02:50
and I was like, huh.

0:02:51
Then I came here with my meditation teacher and she showed me the magic of this place. And I have always experienced this beautiful, magical experience. You can see it in the trees, in the light, in the energy. This is a place of power, an amazing place. And it's always been, as I've been growing up and living, my place of predilection. From here you see the ocean and the sunset, and the city, you see so much from here. It's a place of seeing and a place of balance. Amazing place. And meditating here is always happy, always good. And my first power trip with Rama was to the big island of Hawaii. And I went there and never went to Hawaii before. I go there with my teacher and then all of a sudden I'm like wow the big island is amazing and and I explored it, experienced it, went all around it and it was an amazing experience. And then after a tour of duty as a yogi in New York, when I came back, I came back to visit Hawaii. And I was like, oh, the first place of power that my teacher brought me to is this place. Wow, amazing. And again and again, I went back there. And it was like, wow, Hawaii, amazing place. So much energy, so much beauty. So Hawaii is a place of power. It's an ally, a great friend. Just like this place. Some ST3s might to Hawaii in 2000 probably. And before we went to Hawaii, we came up to this mountain to meditate. We were like, oh my gosh, it was like the economy was going really bad, everything was going horrible in Silicon Valley. It was like a bad situation. And Mandala and situation and Mandela and I were like this is not a good situation for people to get the first 10 jobs and we thought Hawaii Hawaii Hawaii and we're like we're going to Hawaii and all the ST3s were like why not? How bad could that be? And then we came here days before traveling. We sat up on this mountain in meditation and we saw the beautiful fog come in and we saw the setting sun and we were like, why are we moving to Hawaii? This place is so beautiful and it is this is a place of power, a place of great beauty, a place of wonder and magic and that won't change. So any of you who are staying behind this is a place, it's a good place. And for those of you who are going into Hawaii, adventure. Wonderful experience. But the great thing about the Buddha Dojo is you can be anywhere. You can be in Hawaii and have that experience. You can be here and have this experience. There's some magic here. You're not losing anything being here. And then you in some other country and experiencing the Buddha Dojo. The power of Hawaii is a very strong root where we're bringing up magic, Buddhist mysticism for everyone around the world. And this is also a place that we're bringing up power and energy for all people in the Buddha Dojo. Someone might be in Bangladesh and they might be like, who is this some Latter Day? And I'll be like, I don't know. And guess what they're going to feel? They're going to come through. And they'll be like, there's something about this that feels good to me. Something I like. Something positive. Something helpful.

0:08:15
So, this is one of my favorite places.

0:08:19
I mean, I love Hawaii. And that's a new exploration. exploration, this great energy, very powerful stillness, very powerful like ananda blissful energy. But here is a beautiful place right now where we're at together, a beautiful place, stillness, wonderfulness. The trees, the ground, the ground is just a bunch of dirt with some rocks, some plants. It's a place that has light. Every little rock here is alive with energy. I mean, that's the way I know it. That's the way I see it. It's magic. These trees are towers of power. Just an amazing place. This is a massive shoal of energy. And the sky, it opens up, and the ocean, it opens up. This is a very special place. So, here now is a good place and a good place to be. And all of you who are here have really come in to help, to share, to bring something of yourself to help another person in a group, our little sangha. You know, we're just a small group of people in a crazy world. And if we can get along and work together and be strong together, then the world can go crazy and we can have, what's that, QAnon take over most of the universe or something like that? And that's what's happening, craziness. And whatever happens in the telenovela of our country, we can be a group in truth together, and strength together, like a dojo. Like, we're like, everyone else might be going around talking blah, blah, blah, but we're like, wah, wah, right? And we become strong in our techniques that are real. And everyone else might be talking la la land, but when it comes to it, we're like, la la land gets punched in the face.

0:11:22
Yeah.

0:11:24
And, I don't know, maybe we get destroyed. But we get destroyed with power. Impeccably destroyed. Best way to go out. Alright, so I'd like to meditate with you. Do we have music? Yeah? Alright, let's meditate to music.

0:12:02
I'm gonna clean up that way. Um, what do you got? Three songs?

0:12:08
Alright. Is it Canyons of Light? Alright, let's do Canyons of Light. We're close enough. Alright, so sit up straight, and we're gonna do three songs. And we're gonna do three songs on the third eye so all three songs third eye okay all right let's do it let's begin

0:12:36
So so the the the the So, so the the you..... the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so Thank you. the the the Thank you. the the the so the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So I'm you Oh wow. Really wonderful. Wow. My evil meditation laugh. Wow. Alright, that was really wonderful. So, some of you are moving to Hawaii, and that's good. But, if you're moving to Hawaii.

0:26:07
Guess what, over there, they don't have jobs either. I can have not a job here and not a job there. That would not be a good idea. So when you come to Hawaii, come to Hawaii with strength. Like you've developed yourself, you have a strong career, and then come over. But don't come to Hawaii when you're in a place of weakness.

0:26:50
Because it's not easier there, not at all.

0:26:52
Oh it's going to be easier in the water, you know?

0:26:54
No it's not. Oh it should be great, we're going to do our...

0:26:57
I don't have to say anything, no it's not.

0:26:59
It's harder there and that means that you have to be strong. So, don't go over there thinking, oh, it'll be easy. It's not easy there, it's hard there. It's more difficult, way more difficult than the Bay Area. So that's why you have to develop yourself here and be strong. And then you go over there, and you're good. You have to set it up so that it works. You have to say, okay, I've got a job, I can do it from Hawaii. Because if you go to Hawaii and you're like, well, another job, now I'm working at Starbucks. And actually Starbucks isn't hiring, you know, because there's no tourists during the pandemic. You know, it's not a good place to be if you don't have your stuff together. So if you go there and you find yourself jobless, I will say, go back to America. Go to the mainland. This ain't the mainland. Like, go to the mainland. And you're like, why? The tone of Hawaii is not as functional as it is here. So if you are in Hawaii and you don't have a job, it means that you don't have enough strength. You don't have enough personal power. And in Hawaii, you'll be like, oh yeah, I'll get a job. And I'll be like, mainland, this direction.

0:28:53
Yeah, I'll get a job, it'll be the same.

0:28:55
No, it's not. We're gonna have a lot of tunnel around what we're building, but it's built on people who have enough tunnel, who have a lot of personal power to have a strong career, to be able to work here or there. And if you don't have that, then I'm gonna say, go back, go back to Mordor, we will take you. You guys hear that? Come back, this is what the Nazgul said, come back to Mordor, we will take you.

0:29:43
Come back to Mordor.

0:29:45
Mordor's pretty nice.

0:29:46
So when you go there, go there to be strong. And if you've got your stuff together, lined up, you can be, as Mondali used to call it, the cool kids on the island. You can be strong, successful, and live in such a wonderful place. But unless you've got a job and it's not gonna work it's horrible you don't like that's not a place to build on you have to go there with strength already and maintain that strength if you go there and go I'll just kind of figure it out I'm gonna job it like I'd like to go to Starbucks.

0:30:47
I'd like to go to Starbucks.

0:30:48
I'd like to go to Starbucks.

0:30:49
I'd like to go to Starbucks.

0:30:50
I'd like to go to Starbucks. I'd like to go to Starbucks.

0:30:52
I'd like to go to Starbucks. I'd like to go to Starbucks. I'd like to go to Starbucks. I'd like to go to Starbucks.

0:30:56
I'd like to go to Starbucks.

0:30:57
I'd like to go to Starbucks.

0:30:58
I'd like to go to Starbucks.

0:30:59
I'd like to go to Starbucks. I'd like to go to Starbucks. I'd like to go to Starbucks. I'd like to go to Starbucks. I'd like to go to Starbucks. I'd like to go to Starbucks.

0:31:05
I'd like to go to Starbucks.

0:31:06
I'd like to go to Starbucks.

0:31:07
I'd like to go to Starbucks.

0:31:08
I'd like to go to Starbucks. I'd like to go to Starbucks.

0:31:10
I'd like to go to Starbucks. I'd like to go to Starbucks.

0:31:12
I'd like to go to Starbucks. I'd like to go to Starbucks.

0:31:14
I'd like to go to Starbucks.

0:31:15
I used to know this guy named Victor. Victor. You gotta go there as a Victor, a winner. You have to. You can't go there and say, well, although they're gonna try to build stuff up, I'm like, what are you? Into macadamia nuts or something?

0:31:32
I don't know.

0:31:34
It's not gonna happen. So, be strong. Be strong. And, uh oh, okay. I have a special gift for most of you. Where's my special gift? Okay. Now, I'm going to give you a gift. Thank you. And this, oh my gosh, it's heavy. All right, so every week or other week, I go up to visit my mother in Fort Bragg. And some of you have been there with me. Fort Bragg is a beautiful place. So Waxman, Indiana, they moved up there. And lots of us have been there on special trips. There's places of power on the ocean that you can meditate there, really wonderful places of power. And then if you leave the ocean and you go inland, it's very depressing. I tell them, you have to go to the ocean every day. But anyway, my mother is a student, she's a yogi, and her meditation is she knits hats like this. And she goes, Om Mani Padme Hum, Om Mani Padme Hum. Every knit is a mantra. She learned that.

0:33:10
That's what she does.

0:33:11
She's made me hats like this and I've given hats to several of you. But she's been knitting like crazy. I mean this is like, I don't know, probably two months of knitting. And she's just like, I'm knitting like crazy. So when I go up there recently, I'll go out and we'll go to the ocean, beautiful ocean, and Lakshman and Deanna will come. And then there's a new student there, his name is Noel. And my mother started teaching him when he was like two years old, and now he's 20. And he's a really great kid, and he's meditating. He hangs out with us. Every time I come home, like, we're going to meet at 7 a.m. He's all, I'll be there. I don't know what's going on at all. I'm showing up. He has no clue what's going on. He just shows up and he's all. And we sit there and he's like, I'm like, we're going to sit for an hour. And he's all, okay. And he's all...

0:34:27
And he's all, how do you guys just keep sitting there? And I'm like, you'll get it.

0:34:35
And we've been teaching him. And one of my favorite things is that, you know, I'm like, Lachman, you should teach this guy. He's a great, amazing being.

0:34:45
And Lachman's all, I don't know.

0:34:47
I've got all these other things I'm doing. I'm like, yeah, but you're here. You should meet with my mom and him once a week and meditate. He's like, well, I don't know. He's like, sure, we can do it.

0:34:58
He's like, wow.

0:35:00
And then, you know, looking at this guy, you know, he's a good guy. He's got a lot of heart in this guy. I'm like, yeah. He's all, okay. And then we're sitting there, we're meditating. And then, you know, Noel's all, it's hard to sit up straight so long. And then Washington's all, sit up straight! Like SKA, right?

0:35:39
And they're like,

0:35:40
and we're sitting there for another two minutes, and Watchman's like,

0:35:46
Focus! I forgot what I'm supposed to focus on!

0:35:51
Where's my chakra?

0:35:53
And so, it's been like that for a long time, and it's so cute, because Watchman's like, I don't know if I can help this guy.

0:36:00
And then after a little while he's all,

0:36:05
so so.

0:36:07
And then little Noel's all, okay, all right. Noel's smart and he's sensitive. He's a sensitive being. And he just keeps showing up. That's the kind of person we want around. He's totally clueless all messed up no personal power a total wimp just keeps showing up when we show up. We're gonna meet at 7 in the morning.

0:36:36
He's like, I'll show up. So am I.

0:36:40
That's a really beautiful thing. That's a story of like the heart. And then Lakshman's all, I don't want to teach this guy. I have other things to do. And then Lakshman's all, it's really beautiful, because I can yell at him too.

0:36:58
He shows up, that's good.

0:37:00
And then Lakshman's all, shut up. I was like, listen to Lakshman. He's experienced.

0:37:07
He's successful.

0:37:09
This is the guy who can show you your way to be a strong computer programmer. And he's like, wow. I'm impressed. I'm impressed. I'm going to speak louder than the mic. Yeah, it's really beautiful. It's okay. So, you know, we're in a very special place and a very special time. So if you're around here and you want to, I'm going to be going, you know, I'll be coming back here every quarter. And I'll be going to visit my mother. And I'll bring you guys up if you want to come with me. It's a very beautiful place of power. Have you been to Mendocino? It's so nice up there. And then if you come up with me, with my mother.

0:38:28
My mother.

0:38:31
Now my mother has become quite the yogi because she's, you know, I taught her meditation and she's all, you need ideas, I don't know how to do it. And then I said, well, you like knitting, she's all, yes. I'm like, if you knit and say, Om Mani Padme Hum, Om Mani Padme Hum, that's meditation, and she's like, oh, okay. And then she started knitting like crazy. And now, this is just the past, like, two and a half months, but I'm gonna give you all a gift. I wear this hat every day. And some of you have gotten one of these hats, but if you don't have one of these hats, I want to give you one of my mom's yoga hats. So I think, I got a lot of them here. So I think if you can come up one at a time,

0:39:27
I will give you a hat.

0:39:28
If you get close, I'll throw it to you. Yeah, yeah, so start coming up. I want to give you a My Mom's Yoga Hat. If my mom did like, you know, out-body, I'd give you one of those. But it's just a hat. But it's a good thing. It's a happy hat. Please, and put it on. You can put it on. I told my mom, my last day in America, I didn't get a hat.

0:40:10
Enjoy, thank you. Oh, hello. You look really good, you look warm.

0:40:16
That will help too. Hey!

0:40:20
Can you go into Hawaii tomorrow?

0:40:22
Sure.

0:40:23
Alright!

0:40:24
Some of us are going to Hawaii. Hello!

0:40:28
Thank you.

0:40:30
We got a lot of hats. Oh! Yeah. Oh, yeah. A long name.

0:40:40
Endless hat. Hat yoga. Do you know who I am? See? My mother

0:40:50
has something

0:40:52
in common.

0:40:54
And a hat? For you. I still have it. Are you part of the Red Hat cult? Absolutely. Thank you. You know, the Tibetans, they're really into like certain sets of Tibetan Buddhism. The yellow hats, the black hats, the red hats.

0:41:24
I guess we're in the red hat.

0:41:29
We're in the red hat. What are you wearing? Get that off! You're gonna get cold.

0:41:42
Is that it? Oh wait, wait, wait, there's more.

0:41:46
Okay, good.

0:41:48
Nice clothes. This ruffie needs a hat.

0:42:05
Look at you.

0:42:07
That's a special Scotty dog. It's going to work in Hawaii. Believe me. Believe me, it's going to work in Hawaii. Just for survival. During a job. during the time.

0:42:28
Good job.

0:42:30
Hello. Good to see you. You all have done so much to make it here. You've done something to have a savor moment. Oh, that's nice.

0:42:44
Oh, that's nice.

0:42:46
Hello.

0:42:48
When you do some Seva, oh my goodness, you guys are turning into the Red Hat folks. The Red Hats would be proud. You guys are doing really well. Thank you.

0:43:09
right

0:43:19
Hey, you know what?

0:43:21
We might be done. Wait, wait, wait. Yeah, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, okay.

0:43:26
Now my mother

0:43:28
knitted

0:43:29
these bags to hold them in. So you're gonna get a bag, but guess what? Just for now. That's a cool bag.

0:43:36
You're gonna get a hat, but you gotta use that bag for something. I was like, when did this woman get a hat? And guess what? She did it twice. All right. So those of you who didn't on because my mother will make more while we're sitting here. But thank you. It's going to happen. All right, so, you know, this is what we got for now. And Jane, no? You got one?

0:45:03
Oh, okay.

0:45:06
So, for those of you who didn't get one yet, it's coming it's got to be patient

0:45:18
well this looks nice My mother, literally, this is her meditation. She's all, I don't know why I do this.

0:45:27
Like, you know.

0:45:29
But she likes doing it. Yeah, shouldn't we? Oh, there. There we go.

0:45:35
So, um...

0:45:37
So this is just a beautiful time. A beautiful time to be together in this wonderful place. Some of the FC Pink 3s will remember before we went to Hawaii, our last move, where a lot happened, it was a powerful move. Did lots of things. We came here, and we meditated, and it was beautiful. It's like, when we were in San Francisco, it's like, oh, it's hard, there's pain, there's all this crazy stuff going on, and now it's even worse. But we came here, and we're like, wow, it's beautiful here. It's not a bad place. It's a beautiful place. Anywhere is a beautiful place. But this is a fortunate place. Beauty and wonder and light and energy and sunset and the ocean and the mountains. And you know, Hawaii is also a good place. Hawaii has warm water. You'll jump in the ocean. But wherever you go, there you are.

0:47:31
Here we are.

0:47:32
And this is a good place. Alright, so I'd like to do a little meditation with you. Just a little meditation on the heart. No music. We'll sit in silence. Just for a few minutes. But now that you have your mind controlling me, just like a magneto. He's all, you can't mess with me. I've got my long-knitted hat. Alright, so relax. I want you to relax and don't try. And maybe open your eyes and see the sky. Do you see the sky? What a beautiful blue and the clouds and even the airplane and look a little bit lower behind the trees where the sun is coming low in the horizon and look at this beautiful rolling green hill and think, this might be a good place to master my jujitsu rolls. So look around, and if you're going to move to Hawaii, then look at San Francisco, the This is the place of community and power, of people's need.

0:49:17
Let's take this in.

0:49:18
This is our place of seeing, of recapitulation, of gathering our power that we've had here and loving this place and then taking another step. Not that we won't come back here, but we have to honor this experience. I mean, I see even the rocks here, the dirt is shiny with light. It's a place of power and a place that has served us and aided us in many wonderful, beautiful ways. So let's honor those things. And look at that sky, and look at these trees. When we were walking, I was walking past these trees that are this tall, right over there, and I said, when I started coming here with my meditation teacher, these trees were this tall. And now they're giants. And it's beautiful to see things grow. To see the sky stay the same. So let's just sit and let's not call it meditation. Let's just call it sitting. And look around and feel. Look at the dirt. Look at the sky. Look at the trees. Look to the sun. Look to the city. Just take a few minutes and then when we're done we're going to walk together just over there and stand and watch the sunset over the horizon. We're just going to sit for a few minutes and just be present. Listen, hear, think, feel. here. Sink. Feel. It's really nice. It's not freezing cold. Just feel the wind. Feel your body. Feel the earth. Just take a moment. Okay? So it's nice and straight.

0:51:53
Let's begin. I'm going to go ahead and get the camera. So I'm going to do a little walk to watch the sunset.

0:54:51
to watch the sunset and the sunset. Thank you and make our way back. We're a small enough group, so I don't think any of you are going to get lost.

0:55:00
Thank you all very much.

0:55:02
And let's just go. very I'm going to go ahead and get my camera.

0:55:13
I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
