0:00:00
Hello, welcome.

0:00:04
All right, so we had to make sure that we had the right audience. It's very important. So we're going to begin with meditation. So sit up nice and straight. We're going to do one song meditation on the heart.

0:00:24
Let's begin. Let's begin the the the the So so the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the So So Welcome to Sambara Fun Time. We have to keep out the people who don't belong here because

0:02:21
they can't take the pain. What was that movie? I forgot the movie. Jack Nicholson is on trial for doing some horrible things.

0:04:53
A few good men.

0:04:54
And they're all like, he's on trial,

0:04:56
they're all like, you killed people, you tortured people, you did bad things. And he's all, no, I mean, maybe. Then they're like, he's on trial. And they're like, tell us the truth. And he says, you can't handle the truth. And then they say, tell us the truth. And then he says, yeah, I did it. All right, you go to prison. The Republicans learned from that.

0:05:19
There.

0:05:19
Don't, don't tell the truth. So in the end, we have to remember, you know, that this is a very special opportunity to be together at some bar of fun time and that, you know, like we have rules. Like, this is like our special time for, you know, advanced students. So it's like, it's a special thing. We can't let any riffraff in the room. Potosit Bodons. No, Bodons are advanced intermediate. They're on the fast track, the fast path, because other people are on the slow path, which is a good path, but fast is fun. That's why it's Envira Fun Time. Envira Fun Time. Yeah, so we have got the right people in the Zoom. And if other students kind of learn how to hack in, then they deserve to be here.

0:06:35
Thumbs up.

0:06:36
Okay, so, it's like a fight club. What's the rule about fight club? You don't talk about fight club, right? I showed up for fight club, but I got there 15 minutes late, so I didn't learn the rules. So I recommend it to anyone. It's a great thing. The Fighting Irish. Okay, so, no, it's important. You know, what's the rule about Fight Club? Don't talk about Fight Club. What's the rule about Sembara Fun Time? We don't talk about Sambar Fun Time. Because it's too cool. It's too awesome. It's too amazing. And people who select more of a moderate path, they won't For the free satsangs, there has to be a certain energy, a certain power. And it's good and it's helpful, but there's a much stronger power. It's a fast path power. It's the fast break. There's a candy bar called the fast break. Eat it. It's like chocolate and peanuts and peanut butter. And it's like, the fast break. Bam, bam. You eat it. That's what they, it's in basketball. It's where someone's playing basketball, and then they find a way and they go, through the opponents. It's the fast break. And it's also, so basketball fast break for the three of you who play basketball and know that. And then it's a candy bar for the other three of you

0:08:37
who know that candy bar.

0:08:38
Yeah, so that's it.

0:08:40
And then for Tara, Tara also knows the other definition of the fast break, which we're going to stay quiet about because it is lethal. It's lethal. Okay. So we don't want to let people come here who don't belong here because they won't understand. If they don't have the right level of participation, you know, if they're, they might be intermediate, but the Bodons are advanced intermediate. They're on the fast path. So the advanced path for intermediates, for Bodons, it's like... That's why Bodons get to come to the teachings of the Shodons, the advanced students. People have been here for 20 years, you get to be here because you guys have the right spirit. You got like, you're moving ahead. Actually, you're moving ahead faster than the advanced students, because they're all crapping out. So you have to move to Hawaii. I'm not kidding. I'm like, the advanced students are crapping out. I mean, some of them go into Somali. But most of them are crapping out.

0:10:26
I'm going to Somalia.

0:10:27
But most of them are crapping out and I care about them.

0:10:31
So we're going to Hawaii. But most of the Bodons are doing good.

0:10:35
You guys are like, wow. Bam, bada bing, bada boom. Yeah, so we have to be careful because there's intermediate students who are great intermediate students, fantastic. But they're not at the boton level. Botons are fast track. Number one, fast track. Yeah, so this is very important. So when we have these meetings, This is Sampara fun time. Sampara fun time. Boop boop boop boop boop. It's fun for me.

0:11:14
I hope it's fun for you.

0:11:16
But it's important to have Buddha Dojo etiquette. And that means to respect the level of the Dojo. So that means that when you are coming to, that it's the proper thing for you. It's like, I am gonna show up, even though I would love to go to the black belt class, I know that I'm a green belt and that's my level. So I'm not gonna squeeze my way in. I'm gonna respect the structure of the school. And even though I would love to hear Sembara Fun Time, I'm not at that level. I don't have that level of commitment. I don't have that level of personal power. So even though I would love to hear it, I'm not there. And so I should respect that and bow out.

0:12:46
Maybe there's some confusion.

0:12:48
You're like, Oh, I joined yesterday. I want to, I want to show up at the boat on and advance teaching. We're like, Oh, it's not for you. It's you, you could, we can give you a little bowl of guacamole, but it's actually wasabi. Eat all the guacamole. And then you can come.

0:13:13
I mean, if you mix up wasabi, you can put a little, chop some onions and tomatoes and put it in there.

0:13:18
You're like, eat this. Then, honorable.

0:13:24
So, fried crab.

0:13:26
Fried crab.

0:13:27
This is messed up.

0:13:29
There's no L or R in fight. Anyway, that's what you get.

0:13:37
But it's important.

0:13:39
So, who is here now is advanced students and intermediate advanced students, boat ons and show ons. And if you're not, you're in the wrong place.

0:14:07
Are you lost Holmes?

0:14:08
It's like, and also, you know, just because there's an ST2 or an ST1 who says, I want to look into it, it's not a good thing for them. So I know that you have, some of you have really good friendships or connections with ST2s or ST1s. Shakti's okay. Mudra's okay. They're okay. But any other ST2s or ST1s, not okay. No, like, like, it's really okay for Shakti and Mudra to come in because they're really participating in the school. And like Yana was participating, he was like in it, he was doing yoga, he was doing teaching. So when someone's like participating in our school, then I'm like, OK, you're very welcome. But a lot of us teachers in SE1s, they don't participate. They're doing their own thing is good and we can coexist in a balanced way. But if they're not a part, like Shakti and Bhoja are, they are enlisted in, they are in the dojo. They went to the website. Da da da da da da da. fond of and they're like, hey, why don't you give me the credentials to watch this? Or why don't I sit next to you while you watch this?

0:15:48
Then I would say no to them.

0:15:54
That's not right.

0:15:55
It's not right.

0:15:56
I know you want to like figure out what's going on. And guess what you get to figure out? You get to figure out that Rama would say, no, this ain't right. You shouldn't do it. It's not your place. You're not involved in it. You're not like, what are you doing here? Get off, get out of my dojo. That's what Rama would say. And you have your place. If you're interested in teaching, can be a part of this school. But for those of you who have friendly relations and they give you a little bit of pressure because they want to get what they want to get, you should say, I have to honor the structure of my dojo, which is, you know, tell the sensei. If you want to come, if you really want to be there, you want to know what's going on, ask the sensei to come to the class. They can't come over to you, a green belt, a black belt or whatever and say, hey, we're friends. And let me sit with you and watch this. Or hey, give me the link or give me the credentials, right? No, that's bad. This is a dojo.

0:17:23
It's a Buddha dojo.

0:17:24
For real. Remember how I was on day one of the Buddha dojo, I was like all, rawr! I was all, hey, guess what? Sambara can say swear words. And they're all, oh my God. Because, not half, maybe 35% of the people watching, no, I think half, okay. 35% of the people watching were a mess, and half were bad. And I'm just like, if this is what I can start this thing with, I'm like, oh my gosh, get out of here. I'm like, people are going to be like laying down in bed and watching me. I'm like, not happening. So you have to, even though there's ST2s or ST1s who say, I want to know, I just want to know what's going on. I want to support and understand. They can apply through the website and be a part of it if they wish to, but don't just let them, you know, sit next to you or give them credentials. Because that's disrespecting a structure of a dojo. So that's been happening.

0:18:58
What we've had is what we call in the art of war,

0:19:01
spies, chapter 13. Spies. And I'm like, oh yeah, they're good friends of mine and they're spies and stuff like that. But it just, it weakens the dojo. They don't need to be part of Simbar Fun Time. They don't really like it. Like, they're into what they're into, but they want to know things. What did Simbar say?

0:19:33
Nothing. And that's the main point that I'm trying to say, is nothing.

0:19:37
But they're like, what do you see? And I'm like, okay, stop it.

0:19:42
So, don't share.

0:19:45
Like, this is the place where we have a, we call it the secret teachings. It means that we really try to block this off for the people with the right spirit, the right giving, the right intention. And that's where we want to be. Other people, other, even, you know, advanced students or enlightened students, if they don't come in through the Buddha Dojo, which comes past me, if they want to like come in a back door, it's not right. It's just wrong. So if you're an ST1 or an ST2 seeing this, I would direct you to Rama. That's bad. That's the bad intention. Not right. So and if you're vulnerable to them because they pressure you, they go, oh, I really love

0:20:57
Samaria.

0:20:58
I really want to know what's going on with his advanced teachings. Well then they should sign up if they care so much. So if they don't sign up, don't give it to them. And if they're watching right now, Rama, like I'm giving you the pointer finger but you know which finger Rama would give you this is bad etiquette you give you the other finger okay it's true so I know so I know the reason I'm talking about this is because I know, I know, and it's bad etiquette, so stop it. And for my weak little students who get bothered by you, stop it, stop messing with my students. Stop trying to get power over them and say, oh, but I love learning, I wanna know what's going on. You're getting power over my students, stop it. And my little weak student, stop being weak, stand up and say, here's the structure. You cannot walk into this green belt class just because you feel like it.

0:22:11
Or this red belt class, black belt class.

0:22:14
You have to come in the front door, sign in, and the sensei has to say, cool, which I will. I will say cool, no problem, you're totally allowed, but you can't come in the back door and just like spy on what's going on. Sorry, that's my faking faces.

0:22:39
Oh, I know what. I've got this new thing.

0:22:42
It's a new computer. Usually we have the camera where I'm all like, there's a camera. And now I have this, what do you call it, computer. So I'm all, because we shipped the camera and all the equipment to Hawaii. And now I'm like, this is a laptop. So I'm all like, I kind of see myself. So I'm like, I gotta make faces.

0:23:13
All right, so we have to have the right etiquette,

0:23:18
especially in this class,

0:23:20
because this is the smack down, fast path, big thing. Now my advanced teaching that gives you the way to the super power, he said, after that, a teacher will kick your ass and give you a hard time more and more and and he gave us a hard time up till that like a big hard time and then he said after the the the college chapter of retirement after the advanced teachings after that thing that launches you to your enlightenment he said that's where a teacher really kicks your ass.

0:24:53
Gives you a really hard time, really yells at you,

0:24:56
really points out things. And so it's true. And even if you get to your personal first level of liberation. There's still more. No, liberation is great. No, it's really good. Why are we here? That's a good thing. But that's step one. But it's a good It's like an MP to the head. Once you get it, you know. Yeah, but no, it's true. It's like, it's a very good thing, but on the way to enlightenment, a teacher will

0:25:47
give you a really hard time.

0:25:48
And there's only one way to enlightenment. The teacher knows that. One way. Only one way. Teacher is like, I'm teaching you, and then all of a sudden I give you the advanced teachings, and guess what? Now there's only one way to enlightenment. That way. No, wait, wait, wait. That way. Both ways. So the advanced teacher goes to the advanced student and goes, here's a way. It's only one way. What have we been doing? Only one way to enlightenment and everything that we've been doing is just a joke. It is. It's a comedy. I'm not here for a big drama. I was here for a comedy. I came into a comedy film with all of you. And that's, at a certain point, even in a good comedy film, there's a little bit of a reality where people go Anyway, it's like something's going on in this comedy that makes me cry a little bit. That's a good comedy. Laughter and tears. Sembara, happy time. So there's a lot of transmissions in this teaching. This teaching is what we call advanced teaching. Here's my mega mudra. I'm going to mudra you guys. Look at that. Big mudra. That was a good one. That was an Only one way for enlightenment. Every way. So that's the thing. You know, like, what do we do? Why are we doing all this? We have very strict practices. Gotta meditate. money put me home. Right? Like all, oh, where's my chakras? You don't need to have any chakras for enlightenment. It's true. What do we do? We do learn a computer and program it. Well, I mean, it makes you money, but you don't need that for enlightenment. You don't need to know karate. I mean, there's the Shaolin monks. I think maybe my top 10 black belts can beat the top 10 Shaolin monks. What do you think, Raja? They just know how to punch a kick. You know, break down. They don't know what to do on the ground. Bodhidharma didn't know what to do on the ground. It was a different age. An age of the fighting Irish. So, this is a very, very specialized and weird school. It's weird for me, I'm still there, right?

0:30:00
Like I learned a computer, I learned a black belt,

0:30:03
I learned a scuba, what else did I learn? That's pretty much it. Computer programming in this age, as a right livelihood, as a yogic practice, is just crazy, and I did it and now I'm like oh now I'm saying you should do it too which is totally selfless because it's the weirdest thing but it works. It's the weirdest thing but it works. But and so I'm like that's the way to enlightenment and there's some guy sitting you know in a cave in India is the pathway to enlightenment. I'm like, well, yeah, sure. That's another way. So that means that there's only this way. In our dojo, that's the way. It's just a certain way. If you do it, it works. But there's another dojo. And there's a lot of other dojos, a lot of other dojos. So that means that any way is the way to enlightenment. Any way is the way. And you just have to do it enough. Let's say that you're a very angry person. If you're angry, anger is the way to enlightenment. You can follow, if you had a great teacher, a great teacher can teach you how to be angry all the way to enlightenment, where you give up anger.

0:31:47
But practicing anger, right?

0:31:51
It's like, I'm angry, I'm gonna learn martial arts so I can beat people up or something like that, right? A great teacher can bring you along the way. And then at some point you let it go. Any way that you are in your mind at any moment is the path to enlightenment. And then it changes and transforms and lets go of anything that is anything. But we have a way and it's a way that if you follow it it makes sense and it works until you have to let it all go in your mind but you have to let it all go and also be able to do it that's the tantra it is the i can do it completely all the way and i could also let it go go and come back to this balance.

0:32:49
So I'm the first to tell you that this way

0:32:54
is the way to enlightenment and the only way. And there's every other way and there's every other way. Where's the door to Zen? Zen master, where's the door to Zen?

0:33:05
Right here, over there.

0:33:07
You're there, where are you there the door to Zen is nowhere and everywhere the door to enlightenment is one way and every way and yet we have a way to enlightenment and um if you don't follow that way you're probably not gonna get there you're gonna get there on your own? Your own way? Well, it could happen. It has to be a way. And the way is any way, but it's a way through. So, you know, someone who says, oh, the enlightenment that I follow is the enlightenment of basil leaves. I find the perfect basil plant and I find the perfect basil leaf and I smell it and then I go into somebody whatever you know anything anything is the pathway to enlightenment and that's why it's Sembara fun time because you might as well have fun with the pathway to enlightenment. But it's got to be, it's got to be real. Because if someone is a wishy-washy person with no personal power, just you know coming up with aspersions of ideas of wouldn't it be cool if life was like boo boo boo boo, I'm like yeah, it'd be cool, whatever. It has nothing to do with reality. But if you have insight, power, and connection, then those things are real. They matter. So I'd like to talk about mental health. So, I think that all of you have an extreme mental illness. And this is a cycle of negative thoughts. And my advanced students, I've got two middle fingers, these ones. My advanced students, now you've upgraded your negative thoughts to spiritual negative thoughts. It's really cool. My God, that's impressive.

0:36:06
Wouldn't see that coming.

0:36:08
You're like,

0:36:08
I really am thinking about my enlightenment

0:36:12
and my meditation. Oh, you've been thinking about it. Good job. Well done.

0:36:18
Well done. Golf clap for that.

0:36:26
So, yeah, let it go. These ideas, you gotta let go.

0:36:35
You gotta let go. Let go.

0:36:36
Because these ideas trap you.

0:36:38
They have nothing to do with the actual teachings of enlightenment. It only traps you. People are like, okay, I'm gonna do my meditation for enlightenment. I'm gonna believe in my enlightenment. I'm going for my enlightenment. And they start doing it and they go, I have this idea. Maybe I should move to Sedona or something like that. Or maybe I should not talk to people anymore. I'm gonna keep my job over Zoom and just nod. I'll code. They'll go, well, tell us, how long will it take? And you're all, There will be a month,

0:37:44
you know, a month and a half? You can do that, you know.

0:37:48
They're like, you're like typing, you're all, I've taken a vow of silence. Or, I don't know,

0:37:54
whatever, right?

0:37:56
But, it has nothing to do with enlightenment. Your actions, your thoughts, your reflections on the matter. You're like, oh I'd rather do this. Oh I think I'd like to do that. Or read a book that gave me a new idea. I've got two middle fingers for your ideas.

0:38:18
Thumbs up! Good job!

0:38:23
Because that's the pathway to enlightenment too. I mean follow it and see what it brings you.

0:38:30
Enlightenment, enlightenment.

0:38:34
Okay, we're gonna go on to a special meditation and this meditation is going to be a focus on the third eye.

0:38:50
And we're just gonna sit.

0:38:52
But this is very special teachings. And so, let's do it. So sit up nice and straight,

0:39:02
and Cody, if you would, let's begin.

0:39:04
Thank you.

0:39:11
So, so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so So so so the So. So So So, thank you. So Nanda Aina is a shift. It's a spiritual shift. Many of the newer students, ST4s, ST5s, never made a move. And this was something that Rommel was really powerful with. He would say, I teach you, you know, in LA, San Francisco, Seattle, that was big.

0:48:27
The West Coast was a big time where he taught. Then he said, now we're gonna all move to Chicago. And everyone's all, Chicago? It's horrible, it's cold in the winter. And also, it has a lake and not an ocean. Chicago's a great place, wonderful place, power. But people were uprooted from their California dreaming to move to Chicago. He said, I'm only going to teach in Chicago. And that was a powerful enlightenment for many people. To give up your attachments to a place, to develop the personal power to make a move, and to have the selflessness above all to make that move. It's following a dharma, a teaching, something that gets you out of your head. You might figure it out in your head, oh, well, this is the best thing for me. And guaranteed, that's just in your head. And you know, following structures and there's a super powerful structure of moving, gets you out of your head, it makes a change. And if you don't have the selflessness to make the change, then you don't get the view. So when I say we're moving to the Big Island, it's a powerful thing, and maybe for most mostly for the advanced students. So if you're a boat on, maybe not necessary. I mean, it'd be great, but not necessary. For advanced students, yeah, probably necessary because advanced students are the ones that keep telling you, you guys are stuck in maya. Your practice is not good. You're like sleepy meditation.

0:50:39
I'm going to meditate and I have an idea.

0:50:43
You make your idea or it's not a lot of energy, it's just not happening very often. So advanced students are the biggest fuck-ups. Like it's not happening for most of you. And so I would say go to Hawaii. Figure it out. Go there. Just go. Like stop being like, well I have this and that and this and that and here and there. And they're like, okay, you can do that. That's fine. But if you go to Hawaii, everything changes. And even if you don't go to Hawaii, I'll still give you the advanced teachings from Hawaii because the Ananda Ina is powerful. And the Ananda Ina isn't for everyone, of course, because we were like, oh, well, we have a couple of houses there and we can make six or seven subdivisions and then they can have some houses and it's going to be very expensive and things like that. But we realized something new. We can't even subdivide. Not right away. So they had some new legislation that said in order to subdivide, you have to have 60 inches of rain so that we know that you have enough water for a five acre subdivision. Now, 60 inches of rain is crazy. Bodie Woods gets about 55 inches of rain. And if you've been there in a normal winter, it rains all winter like crazy. But Hawaii actually rains, in South Kona, it rains every day, maybe 10 or 15 minutes. So if you get like a quarter or half inch a day, you get enough rain. So you get a lot of rain. But the county has a little rain measurer from 12 years ago, and it's eight miles from our property, but they've measured 47 inches. It's not 60. We can't get that subdivision, which means we can't get that subdivision. So that means that Ananda Aina is not gonna be a place for 50 people.

0:53:07
It'll be a place for some people.

0:53:09
But my recommendation is, yes, move to Hawaii. Find a place in South Kona, buy your own house. It's strong for your finances and toenail because if you buy a house in Hawaii, it's gonna increase in value. And it's already been increasing, but if you get in now, it's a good investment.

0:53:40
And if you're five to ten minutes away from Ananda Ina,

0:53:43
you'll be able to come to morning meditations or late night meditations, and it'll be no big deal. It'll be like if you live in Bodie Woods, in a cabin, or if you live at Bodie Woods 2, not far away, or if you live down the road where John lives in Waterman Gap, look, it's not far away. It's easy to get there. So I would say move to Hawaii, buy a place close to Ananda Aina so that you can participate in the program

0:54:18
that we have there.

0:54:20
But Ananda Aina is changing. It was originally like, okay, the land use consultant was like, you can definitely get like six or seven, you know, subdivisions. I'm like, fantastic. So it is fantastic and it's a wonderful piece of land. Even if we can't live there it's okay. It's still a pristine beautiful place. It's a place where we're going to have a meditation hall and we're going to have our Hawaii center. So this is a very strong place of power. If you can't live on the land, it's okay. It's kind of like the Dharma Dojo was in South San Francisco. It took us like, what, 27 minutes to drive there from Pacifica. So it is our meditation center. It's good to live near there. South Kona is a really beautiful place. I've always been looking at South Kona for meditation, for retreat, for place for 20 years. I also like Kona. So if you're in Kona, you know, it's 40 minutes away. And after a long time, you'll probably notice it. Because in America, you're like, 40 minutes is nothing. I'll drive there in the morning. I'll drive there, I'll drive back after late night tea. She's no problem. But after you live on the island, after a little while, you'll be like, wow, that's long. I remember we lived on Oahu and some of us, we lived on the North shore. The North shore where we had all the big waves, Kana was surfing, you know, and everything. And it was great, beautiful. And our house was right on the ocean. We had like 40 foot of grass and palm trees and then a beach and then the ocean. It was beautiful. And then we happily would drive in all the way down to Honolulu. It was a 50 minute drive. We're like, no problem. Driving across San Francisco takes an hour during traffic time. We had no problem with 50 minutes across the island. And that's across from north to south. We're like, no big deal. After about a year and a half, we're like, and everybody's like, oh, where do you live? We're all, oh, we live on the North Shore. And they're like, whoa, so far away. Oh my gosh. And we're like, it's no big deal, man. We have a good time. We talk business on our drive, everything. After about a year and a half, we're like,

0:57:38
oh my god, we've lived so far.

0:57:40
You've got island mindset sinks in, you're like, blah, blah, blah, blah. So, Kailua Kona, super top tonal. South Kona is like living in boated woods. It's like a softer tonal. But Kailua-Kona, good tone up. So if you want to live in Kailua-Kona, good, but you're going to drive. And we're going to have, we're basically going to have two major teachings, like a Wednesday and a Saturday. So if you live in Kailua-Kona, you can get the major teachings. But I also might have morning meditations, or everyday sunset meditations or something like that. So you know I would recommend if you can live in South Kona but if you want it easy, if you want more tonal, getting a condo and there's lots of condos in North Kona, Kailua Kona. So but overall whether you live in Kailua Kona North or in South Kona, if you have the tone out, like you got the tech skills, you can move your job over there, you should go there. It's very powerful. A lot of ST3s, no, because ST3s we've moved. We were in California, I guess 2002 was the first tech crash. And California was hit hard. The internet went from internet 1.0 to 2.0, right? And it was like, oh, all this, like all these dot coms were getting all this venture capital and it was building a bubble and the bubble burst. And then we were we had the meditation center and we were. Creating our own software company, but then the whole environment around us went. And I was like, wow, these students are not going to get tech jobs, it's a bad environment, and they said, let's move to Oahu, to Hawaii. And we moved to Hawaii and the transformation that happened in that move was powerful. So all the ST3s being in Hawaii grew, became very powerful. And it was because of the transition, because of the power, it was the next step in Barama. So all ST3s who know that move was a powerful move. And then we were there for a couple of years and then we went to Chicago. We're like, time to change. We went to Chicago and then all ST3s know Chicago is where another transformation happened, powerful transformation. So Rama always had moving times of powerful transformation. And there are times whether you're in the beginning path, intermediate path, or the advanced path, these are times of powerful enlightened transformation. And then we moved from Chicago back to Silicon Valley. And then when Silicon Valley started blowing up, you know, like the 19, 2008, like the great recession, we were in Bodie Woods. We moved out of that very sad state and the ST3s were able to have strong jobs. And we were in Bodie Woods out in the woods and it felt much better. And now we have, you know, the pandemic and the mainland doesn't feel so good. So we're going to Ananda Aina, to Hawaii, a place that has always been a great destination of Dharma. Hawaii was my first power trip. I was a new student. Was I even a student? No, no, no, I don't think we were even accepted as students. We were just guests, new little guests. And we got to go to Hawaii. And I didn't even have the money for it. I had to borrow money from Shakti and thank goodness she had, somehow she had the money for it. And then I was like, I'm in Hawaii, woohoo! And it was so amazing. That trip was just the most amazing trip. And I saw so many beautiful things on that trip, which brings me back to, I've always wanted to be back there. So Nanda Aina is a place.

1:02:57
It's a place of power, place of spirit.

1:03:01
It's a place that is the unfoldment of the Dharma. And there's only one way to go to Hawaii

1:03:14
But

1:03:16
But you know if you follow a certain structure things work out Things happen if you follow your own structure

1:03:23
It's one way

1:03:25
but yeah If you look at the things that work There's every way to enlightenment in every point, in every way, everywhere.

1:03:35
There's enlightenments in everything.

1:03:37
But, if you look at actually things that work, things that give you power, things that bump you up, things that help your meditation, things that help your humor, I don't need to learn computers. I can do whatever I do. I can work at Target, wear a mask, or whatever. Then your personal power will go down. You find that you don't meditate well, you're probably going to go into the free class, Kind of hang out there and see what happens. But if you follow the teachings, the teachings bring you up, they make you powerful. You say, wow, I learned something about my job. I was able to bring my job up and that's why you should be on this class because something in your work is working. Maybe you already had a good job making a lot of money, but now maybe now you're happy doing your work because of job growth. And maybe you're looking for what's the next thing or whatever, you know? It's like something's gotta be working. Something's gotta bring you up. Otherwise, this is all just waffle talk. But this is real. This is real for a lot of people. If it's not real for you, I don't know what you're doing here. But no, this is real. If you do this, it makes you successful, it makes you strong, it makes you happy. Things work if you do things that work. You want to get a martial arts black belt? Things work if you do things that work or there's one direction. You know, figure it out your own your own way. That's fine too. But there are things that work. Buddha said, here's something that works. He laid out a little path. And doing that one, two, three, you know, it's like, oh, I gotta make some changes, but it works. Do something that works. So Ananda Ina is a place we're going to go. We want some difficulty with our beautiful plan of subdividing. We got 32 acres and we're like, oh great, we can subdivide and build many houses. And now they're like, well, the rain's not there for it. So then we said, Tau had this brilliant idea. What if we drill a well? And then we're around the rain problem and the land use consultant said, yeah, if you drill a well, you don't need the rain. And then we looked into drilling a well. And we're at like 1400 feet of elevation, and the water table is at sea level. So we're like, we could drill a well, but it's $1,000 a foot for drilling a well. And then we're all, oh, so $1.4 million to drill a well. We're like, we could kind of do it. It could be similar to buying new houses and all that. We thought about it a lot. We're all, that's crazy. Just because there's enough water, rainwater. It's just because they have an old measurer and and all this stuff and they made a new legislation, it has to be 60 inches or just because of rules. We have to spend 1.4 million. And then we found out, and it's too well. They're like, in order to get a subdivision, you have to have a backup well. And that's for one subdivision. So we're like, we were planning, maybe we can have it on this. We want to do five or six subdivisions. Oh my gosh. So we're like, hmm, probably nothing happened. We were like, what? That's my surprise look. So, but here's the thing about Anandayana. You gotta go with the flow. Like, Bodlywoods, we're like, here's our plan. And then the county comes and goes, you know, problems. And then we're all, well, here's our new plan. And then we build something and then it wasn't right. We rebuilt it and then it wasn't right. And we rebuilt it again, again. So I was always saying, you know, Bodewoods is our Marpa. An angry person who tells us to rebuild all the time. I'm like, when the county comes and says,

1:08:55
meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh, meh,

1:08:56
I'm like, that's just ARPA, don't get mad, don't feel sad, just go do what we gotta do next. And Bodie Woods became a beautiful thing, and it worked for a great number of people, and it works. So Ananda Ina, we had a certain idea and then they came to me like rain, well, well no. Okay. And then we're like, we're like, okay, so it's changing, right? So we're not going to have, you know, the six, six bedroom houses, but we're going to have something it's gonna be something so we have opportunities things to grow like coffee and avocados and papayas yeah Oh yeah, so if you're moving over there to South Kona and you're like, I want to buy

1:09:58
that house and you're like, someone's already bidding on that house, well I'm going to build

1:10:01
more and you're like, oh I'm bidding more against somebody in the study. Yeah, we should communicate. beautiful 32 acres, amazing place for meditation. Good energy. So if we have our meditation hall there, and if you live nearby and you don't bid war somebody in the sangha, which doesn't make sense, we can have an agreement. Then it's a place that you can come and have, there'll be lots of meditations, at least twice a week, teachings and it'll be a very beautiful thing. And as the SV3s know, doing a move for the Dharma is extremely powerful. For the advanced students, it's the most powerful thing. And even if you don't move, the fact that I'm moving and creating this Dharma, it's going to help you. And I'll let you come over on a visit to give you the advanced teachings that I'm going to unfold in Ananda Ayana. I'm like, okay, I have a very strong awareness of advanced teachings that are going to be extremely enlightening. They will be the most pivotal since the first teachings of the advanced teachings. They will be the most pivotal for your enlightenment. They will cause liberation. Because you guys just don't know. But I know. I know very clearly. But I'm going to do it when we have our meditation call. So it's going to be six or eight or ten months or something like that. And then I'm going to give a teaching there. It's going to be in that place and it'll give you guys enough time to like, you know, sit there and work on your meditation. I mean, if you do a good job, you'll, you know, you'll do really well. If you do a bad job, then you'll do really well. That's a good thing about like being in a in a good school because it it really works. And even if you think you're you like a big mess up, it still works out right. Have you ever gone to a karate dojo and someone who sucks and they're just they're bad and everything but as long as they stay there and they follow the teachings, they eventually get their black belt, they eventually learn it. So, you know, if you stay in the dojo, I'm gonna teach you, even if you're a huge mistake. Because mistakes are how you learn, you know? There's, you know, like, there's no quitting, no giving up, and as long as you just keep trying, there's great teachings. That's what the Bardo thought all teaches. You're like, oh, enlightenment's right before me and I'm running away from it. And then you're like, oh, everything stops until enlightenment's back. Yeah. So, um, you know, Ananda Iyana is our next Bardo lesson. Because you guys are in a Bardo, advanced students, big confusion heads Made up of your own confusions. It's not like Not the way it is And I keep telling you you guys are time of heavy Maya Can't even hear the truth in my words. You're all simple is just saying blah blah blah again. I'm like, okay, whatever Come to Hawaii. The transformation is going to happen. It's a very powerful thing and it's something that's very good. So you know going to Hawaii is a powerful thing. The fact that we can't have 50 of us living on the land at the moment, this is okay. Now once Okay. Now, once we start living there, we're going to start keeping our own rainwater records. So maybe in seven or eight years, we can subdivide, but ain't going to be for a while. So all the plans change. You know, I got like, I don't know how many, 30 people emailing me saying, Samara, here's what I want to do, or let me into the house, or let me have a cabin, or let me be in new construction. You know, like all these people going, I want this, I want this, I want this. And it's like, it's going to change. Like, don't worry. I know we're planning all sorts of things. And it's like, we want to have a concrete plan and aim for it. And that's good, because we want to move forward. But don't be attached to anything. Because like Bodhi Woods, it's gonna change. So even what we think is gonna happen today is gonna change, right? So you have to let it flow. You have to let Ananda Aina flow. Because if you try to hold it back, you'll be like, damn it. Thank you, okay. Damn it. Okay. Yeah. So, it's out of our control. You can try to control. You can try to manage and control and hold it. And the more that you do that, the more you're going to be frustrated because stuff's going to happen. You're going, oops, something happened that I didn't, I set a management, I was trying to control, I set my plan, and something else happened and you're like, oops. And if you're mad, chill out, let it flow, and deal with whatever happens, because it's crazy. All it is is crazy. This is an expression of dharma. And so you can't control it, you have to just let it happen. And you have to, you know, be impeccable and selfless and bring your best to it and see what happens. So you can't say, well, I want this out of it. And I am planning on that and I need that. Who knows? It might change. It might change. And it's all going to change based on the dharma. Things flow. So we might find that a neighbor has kept rain records And we say oh guess what we can subdivide or we might find that The neighbor has a well and we can tap into it secretly In the middle of the night we go over tap into their water just kidding Yeah, we might find all sorts of things, all sorts of things, but no matter what, just like Bodhi Woods, this is going to be a powerful thing. It's a place of power for Asanga. It's a powerful place, especially now for the advanced students, this is the place of power. It's very good. A Bodhisitta dojo, really, really wonderful. And we came together and we grew in massive, powerful, special ways. This Ananda Ina is the place for enlightenment. So Ananda Ina is the enlightenment. So we had a Bodhisitta dojo, now we have an enlightenment dojo. And advanced students will become enlightened in Ananda Ayana. Because I've got a few tricks up my sleeve. Oh wait, where's my sleeve? Yeah. No, I have some really great teachings that are, after you've put in the work, they are instant enlightenment. Kind of like Milarepa, Milarepa's all, he's, Marfa's like, you gotta build some stuff. And you go, oh, it's so hard to build. And he does the work, then Marfa said, okay, you've burned off enough karma, is what Marfa said. And he said, now, here's a meditation. Sit in a cave and do that. And then all of a sudden, Milorath was like, boom. Super, super, from the intermediate toil to the advanced ecstasy. So, I know some things that I'm going to teach advanced students and it will happen in a dynamic way. Okay, thank you all very much. 감사합니다. Thanks for coming to Sembar. Happy time. And remember the rules of Fight Club. If you show up late, I don't know, it was pretty cool I put it on my Facebook If you show up late, I don't know, it was pretty cool I put it on my Facebook wall or page or whatever. Alright so thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
