0:00:00
Okay, hello.

0:00:04
Welcome.

0:00:05
Okay, we're going to begin with meditation. So we're going to focus on the heart and we're going to sit for one song.

0:00:15
Let's begin.

0:00:16
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, You. So So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So So so so So So So So you All right, so the solstice is coming and I'd like you to prepare for the solstice. And the way to prepare is to begin by asking yourself, am I doing my best?

0:08:04
So ask yourself, am I doing my best? And if you say, yeah, then that's good. Then you're going to go into the solstice just fine. But if you go, no, I'm not really doing my best, then you need to take a look at your practice. And then the other thing is, you stop doing your best when you lose the essential awareness of what you're doing on the pathway to enlightenment. You know, I see it a lot. Also, like in martial arts. So, there, you know, you could be a black belt or white belt. And if you're, if you know what the mission is right of the, of the art, you put yourself into it completely. So I've seen white belts that are on fire, you know, they're just training really hard, they're very focused. And then I see white belts who just come a couple times a week and they're just getting some exercise or whatever, I don't know. But there are white belts that are just totally focused and then they get so much power out of the art, they're discovering their power. Then there's black belts. I've seen black belts who have been black belts for years and then all of a sudden they check out, you know, show up once in a while, maybe quit, they're like, I've got my black belt already. But then there's black belts who are committed and they have power and they're like working on getting the next level of black belt. So you just have to know whether you're a white belt or a black belt, a beginner or an advanced practitioner. The most important thing is that you're aware, you're aware of what the point is, right? And the point is in what I do. I was studying with my teacher for a while. And then he said, at one point, the senior students, he said that they gave up on meditation. So they were meditating with him for years. And then it's not that they stopped meditating, because they sat there morning and evening sitting, but they lost the vision that makes meditation very, very, very spiritual. So he said that they had lost meditation for a couple years and he was trying to teach them and trying to get them to reawaken to the magic and power and light of meditation, but they just wouldn't. So then what he did was he had them teach meditation to people like me. He's like, yeah, you know, if you can't do teach. So I go over and my teacher is like, okay, I'm going to teach meditation. And this person's like totally checked out. No, but what it did is that was the thing that reignited their practice teaching. to you have to your, your practice has to be alive, have to be awakened practice. You know, there's so many people who meditate like, like their meditations just, I don't know, just maybe it's good for their blood pressure. But um, but no, there's, there's There's a power and light in meditation, in the practices of enlightenment. So you have to like connect to that. It's very important. Otherwise, you're in a bardo. You're like lost in the in-between state. So you gotta ask yourself, am I doing my best or have I lost the plot. Right. I think that if you're, if you have that vision. Then you're happy with everything that you're doing. You're, you're in a state of balance you're enjoying the journey. You've been, you enjoy the toil, the hard parts and everything. Because when you have that that that vision. When you're doing your best, then everything's wonderful. Okay, so Joe has 12 pieces of bacon, then he eats six, what's he left with? Happiness. So the process of the path should be something that makes you happy. And you should see that your life gets better, stronger, you get more balance, more awareness, more peace, deeper meditation, stronger yoga, you should see that there's a progression. And if you're not seeing that you're not doing it correctly. You're not doing yoga right you're not meditating properly. should be able to see that every quarter, every solstice, every equinox, that their meditation is stronger, that their mindfulness is stronger, that they're you know headed into learning a career better. And Bodhans should be observing it monthly and Shodhans should be observing it at least weekly. For me Every meditation is higher. Every meditation. So I sit and meditate and it's higher than the previous meditation. It's kind of funny because sometimes it's like shockingly higher and then sometimes it's just subtly higher, but it's always higher. And I observe that in all of my meditations. So you should, if you're practicing properly, if you see the big picture You should be practicing and you should see that your your mind is getting stronger should see that you have more balance in the life So then the other question is how is your yoga is your yoga on fire Better put it out Yeah, wait. Depends, you know, are you on fire doing your yoga? Or if your yoga's on fire, I don't know if that's good. So yeah, how are you doing in yoga? You should be doing really well, because you see what yoga is. Like we saw everybody succeed in yoga, and it was a very powerful thing. And it had a very tremendous effect on the whole sangha. So, seeing that, you should be like, oh wow, I really want to do yoga. And then you see them do it, you see how they do it, the work that goes into it, you see how it's done correctly. And you see what the results are. And say, yeah, I want to do yoga. It's like, you know, if Martha told you, after you saw Mila Rapa become enlightened, if Martha said, hey, I want you to build me a tower, you should be like, yes, yes. Where do you want it? Here, here, or here? I'm going to build it everywhere. So, yeah, because when you see what yoga does, then that should make you want to do yoga, to make you awaken to yoga. Yeah, so, you know, we have some strong yogas going on. So we have one of the yogas is closing in on the $10 million dollar revenue mark. Amazing, right? One yoga where they made $750,000 in 20 days. Right? So like, yoga is magic. And you should, you should feel like you love your yoga. You should like, dream about yoga, which is a yoga. Okay. Yeah, so yoga is very, very strong. I want, I want you to see the big picture and wake up to yoga. Actually, I have an assignment that I'd like you guys to do before the solstice. And this is an assignment to connect with your dream. And connecting with your dream connects you to the big picture. So my teacher used to always say, you got to have a dream, right? You can't just go through life. Like when you have a dream, like some big, beautiful vision goal, then it opens a place in your heart and in your mind to grow. So a dream could be, I want to be enlightened. That's a great dream, right? And that definitely connects you to the big picture of the path. Sometimes it's, I want to be successful in my career. I want to get a black belt. I want to succeed in yoga. What is it for you? What's your dream? What is your, your, your highest aspiration? And a dream is something that, um, it's not just an idea.

0:17:30
It's a feeling.

0:17:31
It's actually a feeling that opens up a door to that experience. And when you write down what your dream is, you connect to the big picture. Sometimes you can't just connect. The big picture is enlightenment. Going for it. And then you find yourself going, oh, I was meditating? I forgot. But when you have a dream, it's a different vehicle, different energy. You're like, I really dream of being enlightened or a dream of yoga success. And when you have that dream, there's a different energy, a different power, different access, but you see the big picture. You're like, yeah, I'm meditating hard because I have a dream. So I want you to write down what your dream is. I want you to connect to your dream. Dreams are powerful. Dreams create transformation. They always lift you up. They bring you out of karma. So dreams are, you know, a dream is a method, but it's a method of transformation. And, you know, there's a lot of people who have dreams and changes their lives. Sometimes someone makes a business because they have some dreams and vision. I remember a guy who had a dream. He was a friend of mine in high school. His name was Marcus, you know, growing up he's just like, oh gosh everything around me is terrible, like poverty, crime, and everything's just sucky, right? And then he was like watching some kung fu movie on TV and he really got into it. So he's all like, wow. He saw in Kung Fu something exciting and something powerful. So then he's like, I'm going to do Kung Fu. So then he just started doing Kung Fu. We'd like watch movies and like copy them. And then he only, he was this black kid from the ghetto and he only wore Chinese clothes all the time. And then everybody liked him. You know, he's like in the hood. No one, no one messed with him. So there were two gangs in Hunters Point, and he was friendly with both of them. Like they all liked him. They're all, hey there's that funny Kung Fu guy. wonderful kung fu demonstrations. It was like everybody was like just like this guy, it was cool. So you know it's because you know he's sitting there going oh my life sucks you know it's terrible here. Then he had this dream to be a kung fu person. Kung fu Marcus. Yeah so you know you know it lifted him out of his karma and it gave him a higher vision. That's what a dream does. And dreams also, they wake you up if you have a dream. It gets you to look different. You know, you change your view. It gets you out of a routine of attention. So, you know, when you have a dream, you know, you could look at the same situation and then all of a sudden it changes. Because the dream is something that breaks the routine of consciousness. You see things in a bigger, brighter way. So if your dream is to sit on the couch, eat pizza, and watch Netflix, that's a routine, right? So when you change your routine by having a vision, a dream, then everything changes. Then you're going to be like, well, maybe I'll skip the pizza. Anyway, so I had a good friend, also in high school, and he became a contemporary of mine in in the buddhist school uh his name was oughton and in high school he was just a very uninspired person he was always like just like hanging out just there you know he was like hanging out with the stoners and everything and he was just like kind of a cool guy but just there anyway um then uh later uh it's like a year later, I bumped into him, you know, another guy bumped into him. And he's like, oh, what are you guys doing? He's like, I'm going to City College, you know.

0:22:38
Yeah, City College.

0:22:40
And he was like, you know, it's chilling. What are you guys doing and we're like wow we're studying with this enlightened teacher and he's like what and then they were all yeah it's really cool and then he's like okay i'm kind of interested in that that sounds interesting to me and i'm like okay maybe you can see him i'm like you have to come to this class and go to this thing read a book or whatever and then uh so eventually you know he's all well it's kind of interesting. He shows up and then, you know, he sees my teacher and then he's like, yeah, he went from being like, blah, blah, blah, blah, to really excited about everything, like on fire about everything, meditating hard, doing martial arts like crazy, learning computer programming, and he eventually became a very successful yogi. So once you have a dream it breaks your routine of attention and you can see life in yeah you know it's essential amazingness. The routine of mine always like makes you go oh. Uh, dreams are not desires. Desires are, um, self-attached, uh, ideas. So you're like, oh, I have a lot of dreams. I want the perfect boyfriend. I want those Gucci shoes. I need a big flat screen TV, right? So it's like, you can have a lot of wants, but wanting stuff actually gets you more bound up in self. But a dream is different than a want. Dream is something that lifts you above the self and karma. So it's like, here's a joke. My wife got mad at me when I told her that I was leaving to follow my dream, also known as Jessica from across the street. Anyway, so desires are not dreams, right? Very important. So I have a dream. My dream is the Buddha Dojo. This vision of teaching people online, being able to reach people in new ways. So I have this beautiful dream in Ojai. And in this dream, there's so many parts of it, so many feelings, so many things in the second attention. And so I want to do it. I want to make this dream a reality. And it's such a beautiful thing, the Buddha Dojo, because it brings very woke teachings to people all over the place. And, you know, there's a lot of people who are stressed out. There's a lot of people looking for, you know, spirit. And then, you know, they're going online or getting apps like Calm or something like that. And then, you know, Calm, limited results. So they're like, look, you got your Calm, you do some little meditation practice, you get a little bit of Calm, and then you fall asleep. And that's actually what they're working on now. They're like, oh, man, this meditation stuff's not going anywhere. Let's try to get people a better night's sleep. I'm like, oh wow, really? They're like, actually meditation should just... That's what they're teaching. So we have such a wonderful, like living light in our teaching. It's really powerful. So someone could experience the teachings of this school, and it sparks something in them, right, they have it shifts and opens consciousness and awareness, it's like a powerful thing. Like we have the, the, this, the esoteric mystical teachings of transmission, which is a very magical thing. And it could be, you know, even recorded. So I remember I was in Bodie Woods and Shen did a transmission teaching online to his students and he recorded it and he showed it to me. And I watched it and it was super bright. I was like, wow. I said, look, you transcended space and time. In that, he had a live teaching where he was transmitting, and even over Zoom, right? So he did the transmission. But then the transmission was so powerful that you could then look at the recording, and you still get the transmission. That is a sit of power. It's something that you have to develop, how to do those transmissions like that. Took me a long time to do that. But then, you know, he was in Hungary, so I was like always, I got better and better and better doing that more and more and more. And then all of a sudden, because he kind of grew up doing that, getting that, he's all, oh, I can do it.

0:28:48
Boom.

0:28:50
Yeah, so I look at this video and I'm like, oh my gosh, it's so bright, it's so powerful. There are some, you know, you can see some pictures of some enlightened people who they still transmit this power just by looking at their picture. Some enlightened people, you look at their picture and they're just like, they're like not there.

0:29:12
You know, it's not.

0:29:13
But some people, they have this this energy that continues to transmit. It's an amazing thing. So I'm really excited about this dream of bringing the Buddha Dojo to the world, bringing these wonderful teachings to everyone. You know, when you have a dream, our dream always is connected to helping other people, right? We don't just dream for ourselves. It's like, my dream is to save the world, is to change everything. All I need is a source code. It's like we want to do great things for everyone. So in Mahayana Buddhism, they say there's three... They say there's three intentions for enlightenment. The first is, I want enlightenment for myself. That's one intent. The other is, I want enlightenment for others. The third is, I want enlightenment for myself and others. It doesn't sound so basic, right? But these are really, the way that you actually develop that intent really creates something. So, in our school, we always have a dream for ourselves. Well, we always align it to helping other people. So it's like, I wanted to be enlightened, and I wanted to be enlightened so that I could be a better teacher of enlightenment to teach others. That sounds silly. And the other thing is, we work together. So if you have your own dream, and you're just sitting off, you know, in the corner, looking at the rest of the sangha, and say, I got my own dream over here. It's not how we do things either, right? We actually dream together, right? This is a key power in dreaming, that we dream together. We put our dreams together, And so, I think that's the key power in dreaming, that we dream together, we put our dreams together, and then we can do something. So, like, for example, AppBuddy, AppBuddy was a whole bunch of people who had the same dream, right? If it was just the CEO saying, I got a dream, and let's do it. You know, there are businesses where that happens. Someone's like, oh, I have a dream, I'm going to build something, pay them money, and my dream became true. But what we do is we actually, as yogis, we dream together, and there's a much more powerful spiritual dimension when we dream together. It's very important. Yeah, you know, we get along. It's important that we get along. We're like friends, we're going through this adventure of life and spiritual path together. So we work together, martial arts together, and we have a good time. We move along. I remember Shiva gave me a birthday card once, and he's like, to my old friend. And it's for these two old guys laughing and having a good time together. And then one of them says, oh, look, I got this new watch. The other guy goes, oh, how much did it cost? And he goes, 12.30. And then he goes, yeah, okay, a round of golf sounds good. And the other guy's all like, I'll have a beer. And they're just jolly. They're just going through whatever, having a good time. I thought that was pretty funny. So, lastly, you gotta do the work, right? You have a dream, and that's like a beacon of light, showing you the way. But then you have to make that dream a reality. You have to work, right? That's why yoga is so important we work towards achieving the dream and then we achieve the dream um so having that dream is is wonderful it's very important but then you have to do the work so app buddy did the work um now it took app buddy 20 years almost to achieve that level of accomplishment in yoga, which transformed the whole sangha. So, you know, you have to do the real work, you have to do what it actually takes, right? You can't just have a dream and then kind of play towards it and then never get it, right? You got to build that tower. You have to succeed in your yoga. It has to be real. Yep, you know, this, that's what we do in yoga. We have a vision, we have a dream, and then we do the work to bring it out of intangibility into success, into creation. So a lot of you guys are going, what? 20 years? Ain't nobody got time for that. I'm like, oh, I'm tired of chasing my dreams. I'm just going to ask them where they're going and I'll just show up later. So, no, but obviously, you know, Aphbuddhi, they were the trailblazers, and then they were able to show that the way is possible and that if you, and how to do it right. And then that's why we have, you know, we have a couple very successful yogas like really coming up right now. And then the rest of them need to really come up. Yeah, so, but when you have a dream, it really gives you this power and this access, this vision, because you see the picture again, right? That's what you get. And you got to do your part, right? So you're a yogi, right? You have to do your part. You have to work impeccably, selflessly. You know, if everybody had, you know, members who were flakes, it would drag the yoga down, right? Everybody has to push their yogas up. So you have to actually really be a yogi, really be impeccable, really work on being selfless and work, right? So here's a joke from Robert De Niro. So there's this actor, okay? And the actor, he's a bad actor, he always forgets his lines. And he's like, oh, gosh, I'm terrible. And then finally, he gets this one role where he has one line. And it's a play on Broadway. And all he has to do is come out on stage and say, hark, I hear the cannons roar. He's like, okay, okay, I could say that. And then he's sitting there backstage, just going through his line over and over. Hark, I hear the cannons roar. Just going through it again and again. And then the stage manager goes, okay, come on, get out there, it's your turn. Get ready to say your line.

0:36:27
He's like, okay.

0:36:28
And he goes out on stage, and then he hears this boom from behind him, and he turns around and goes, what the hell was that?

0:36:36
All right.

0:36:37
So that, this means you have a dream, it connects you to that which is essential in spirit. So I want you to write down what that means to you. What is your dream and what does it mean? So you're like, oh, my dream is to succeed in yoga.

0:37:20
What's that mean?

0:37:20
What's that look like? What's your, explain it. So I explained my dream of the Buddha Dojo. Explain what your dream is and how you understand it. But when you see your dream, when your dream is clear to you, it connects you to what's essential in spirit. And that's very important going into the solstice, it's always important. But it's very important because when you are connected with your dream and I say, are you doing your best? You'll say, yes. I'll say, are you on fire with your yoga? You'll say, yes. Are you meditating instead of Am I calm? You know, so you'll say yes. Yeah, like your spiritual practice is it's on fire when you're connected to that, that essential vision of spirit. So we're going to sit just for one song, we're going to focus on the third eye. And we're going to do a seeing exercise. We're going to see our dream. We're going to get insight into our dream. We're going to get awareness of our dream. In this seeing exercise, you know, the third eye is going to be opening and you're going to get insight and information about it. And then sometime before the solstice, maybe just do it like this week, right? You're going to write down what your dream is, and then you're going to send it to me in an email. Okay, that is the assignment. So we're going to sit, and we're going to see our

0:39:20
dream.

0:39:22
Let's begin.

0:39:24
you so You so You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone you Very nice. Yeah, so, working together is very, very, very, very important. A lot of how we do things are through networking.

0:44:09
Networking, spiritual network. Didn't they have that psychic phone network, right? Call someone up and pay $1.95 a minute and they're all like, Really? Again? We're going to get money. Really? Again? Anyway, so you know, they said all sorts of stuff. But anyway, we have an actual powerful network. And we do magical things to the network. So, oh yeah, so Saturday the 18th we're doing something super cool in Hawaii. So if you're here, you're very fortunate. And if you're not, then we'll be testing it out and seeing if we can do it somewhere else. But it's something, it's our first LARP, which is called live action role-playing. And what we're doing is we're going around on an ondoloa around the property, and we're having different spiritual teachings and experiences. And I did this, something very similar once in Paris. So, whenever my students came with me to Paris, I might have, you know, six or seven students with me. And we would go around, and I would go to different places of power, different places where there's different energies, and we would meditate there I would show them, you know, students things I'm like look you can see this here. Look, this place is good for this. Look, let's meditate here. And so I would just like go around this big group of eight of us storming through the city. And then one time we went and where there's like 24 of us, I was like, I'm like, we can't. Yeah, we're going to get arrested. It's going to happen. Yeah, we can't do this.

0:45:53
It's not a Buddhist parade or anything, you know.

0:45:55
So so then what I did, I was like, OK, you guys break up into little groups of four. And then I told them, I actually gave them written, I was like, here, go to this place, meditate on this, go to that place, see this. And so everybody was like going around the city to all these places of power that I knew and liked, and where I wanted them to have certain seeings or certain meditative experiences. And so, there were, I couldn't take care of everybody at the same time, I couldn't do what I usually do, which is sit there and go, look. And, and so, but they were going all around. So, since I'm networked in the second attention, I was able to be there with each group, and spiritually directing them to what I wanted to show them. So that's a network, that's a connection. And I do that all the time. I do it in dreams, right? So you guys are all like, wow, I saw Sambara in a dream last night and had this really high spiritual experience. And his Hungarian is really good now. When I dream of Hungarians and they don't speak Hungarian, in case. Anyway, you know, and that's through, that's another way of networking. But the essential way of networking is in the second intention through spirit. So that's a big thing. I think the biggest, and then my students, my Shodans, they're out there teaching, right, and doing transmissions and doing all these, you know, leading power trips and everything. And they're also able to bring these enlightened teachings through that network. Connection to me. So, and then I'm able to do this because I had a connection to my teacher. This is a network of enlightened lineage. So it's a really, really, really powerful thing, networking. So I, you know, I mentioned there's this group of seven enlightened students in New York, and I go and do yoga with them. So they let me into their yoga club now, and then they do a very, very advanced yoga. So all they do is they get together and they practice, And this yoga is kind of impossible to describe because it's completely in the second attention. So when I'm teaching you guys, I'm showing you usually one thing, right? Here, we were third eye, how to open it to see it, to have insight about a dream, right? And this is an esoteric teaching. It's magical. It's something in the second attention. And it's like it's its own thing, right? But sometimes I'll do a transmission about compassion. and so many transmissions are very specific. They're very specific dimensions. And so when I'm doing those transmissions, I'm showing you those things. Now, when I sit down with these guys, they'll do like 20 dimensions at the same time and then shift and keep going. So, and they're so good at what they do. You know, it's like, it's kind of intense for me to keep up. I can do it, but it's really way, way, way, way, way, way, way more advanced than I've seen anywhere else. So they do amazing yoga. And it is a yoga, but it's all in the second attention. I remember the first time I sat with them, they're like, okay, let's do the yoga. And I'm like, what do I do? And then they said, just still your mind and then follow. And I was like, okay. So I still my mind and then they just bam, bam, bam, bam. It's like, it's like, they're like writing like a symphony in front of you. It's got so many things going on. I'm always like, here's a scale.

0:50:20
Da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da.

0:50:22
And you guys are all, oh, da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da.

0:50:26
And you guys are like, oh, okay.

0:50:28
You know, but they're like rock monologue. Anyway, they're, yeah, they're incredible and that they're they're this enlightened network, and they can do so many amazing things together, because they're really really really strong together. If my student is out there in the Andes of Borrego with you, I'm there in the second attention through that network. And I'm really good at that. And my student, who's a showdown or an arhant, is able to work with me and the two of us make something super special and great. It's actually stronger when the network's working together. So, these seven, when they're working together. They're amazing. It's just incredible. So, yeah, so even I continue to push my yoga. You know, this is like this amazing yoga. It's very, very, very intense you have to have very strong discrimination you have to be very good at all these mystical dimensions. And then, hold on to the seat as you go flying through the universe. Anyway, um, cheers. Thanks everyone. Write down your dream and email it to me. And we're going to take a break for 10 minutes, then we'll come back, and then Dakini is going to share with you. Her Jane! Okay, thank you.

0:52:06
Hello everybody. My name is Dakini, and I'm very happy to announce that we are starting a new mystical track in the school. It's called mystical gardening. So, things about it in advance. First of all, this is not a mandatory course, so if you feel like you're not interested in this kind of energy and dimensions that I'm going to teach about, feel free to opt out. It is going to be kind of complementing our core practices, but it's just an optional and nice thing that has many benefits, and I'm going to talk about those benefits too. So this is going to be a course that's going to be very similar to Mystic Scuba for those of you who are diverse. So we are going to connect with nature and natural energies through mystical exercises that we are going to do while caring for plants and meditating with them. And the good news is that this is not location-based, so you don't have to be in Hawaii where I am. I'm going to teach this online and then you can do the exercises by yourself in your own garden or even in your apartment working with your potted plants. Sorry I have to wave, that's what you can see on camera, to go to the next slide. So who am I and why am I talking to you about this? A lot of you know me and you know that before I joined this study, I used to be a horticulturist. I went to school for farming and herbology, botany, and things like that. And for almost a decade after that, I worked with plants doing things like garden design and building gardens. And during those years of working with plants, I started noticing that I'm experiencing and learning things that have nothing to do with the things that I learned in college. Because I noticed that I started understanding the energies of plants, their dimensions, I started building a connection with them, I started understanding their communication, and when you are like that and you start interacting with plants, it's pretty much inevitable to experience these dimensions and energies, because plants are beautiful and magical creatures. So that's what happened. And then after I started on the pathway to enlightenment that this job that I had with plants simply didn't have the potential to help me build personal power. And it's such a fundamental practice in our study that I recognize that it's better for me to become a software engineer. So I did that for like 10 years and then of course I was still connecting with plants and communicating with them in my own free time but not as a profession anymore. Then in 2018 we went to the Anzac Orégo desert for the summer solstice and something very magical happened to me there. One night when we were out in the desert meditating under the stars, somewhere I gave a beautiful dharma talk and once we were done I started packing up my things and I started walking out of the desert and then suddenly I heard a voice. This voice told me a sentence and this sentence opened a whole world of magic for me. It opened the door into a different world, the world of plants and herbal healing. And it had a lot of, it was like a vast amount of knowledge and wisdom and new dimensions that I never saw before. Although everything was in line with my previous small glimpses into this world through my small mystical experiences over the years. It was like a completely different universe. I was very, very fascinated by it and of course I started googling it like crazy. I was like, there's a heap of literature about this, there must be something out there. So I finally found one book that was actually describing how healing shamans work in tribes and that's where I realized that the dimensions and energies I became aware of are the same dimensions and energies these shamans work with and the experience I had in the desert was pretty much the same as these shamans have when they get initiated and get their knowledge to start healing. So this was very very interesting to me but I was also an intermediate student back then and I was on the abody yoga, so I had priorities. I really wanted to succeed in yoga and get the advanced teachings, so I decided to keep this to myself. I was just exploring it in my free time. I was talking to Sambar about it, but otherwise I didn't shift my focus to kind of just drill into this. But now I'm in a place in my practice where I feel it's a really good time for me to share this knowledge. And here's the good news. So, you are also a mystic like me, and the energies and dimensions that we explore in our school, which is the School for Buddhist Mysticism, it's very, very similar to these energies and dimensions I'm going to teach about in this course. So it should be something that's very simple for you and easy to access. And the doors to this bird open very easily for people like us. So to give you a very funny example for this, about how easy it is for these doors to open. A couple of years ago, I went on vacation and I asked one of my housemates to care for my plants, to water them. I come home after like two, three weeks and then she's like, Mel, this is really kind of weird. I never knew before that our plants were so shreddy. And I was like, what do you mean? And then she's like, you know, I'm standing there in your room, watering your plants, just happily spacing me out, when the plant suddenly says, whoa, whoa, whoa, lady, too much water.

0:58:53
So she was like, sorry.

0:58:55
And that's because I actually converse with my plant and it's very normal to me and when you do that, they open up to you and they do communicate very obviously. Because my friend is also a mystic and a very advanced practitioner, she heard the message loud and clear. But this is something that's probably going to happen to you too, that you will be aware of these energies very easily. And she told me several times since then that ever since this short but shocking conversation with my plant, she has a very different relationship with plants. So how will this course look like? We are going to meet once a month to go through the considerations and learn the exercises. I'm going to share the exercises every time when we meet and then you can go and do these exercises by yourself during the following month. I'm also going to offer in-person nature meditations and also gardening sessions in Hawaii. And I'm going to recommend places that you can go visit in the Bay Area places of nature. Next slide, please. Okay, so let me share some sample exercises with you so you have an understanding. And I'm going to give like a short summary of all of them. So immersive gardening is going to be one of them. I noticed when people come to workdays in Andalua and in Bodywoods too, that they experience gardening very differently from me. It's more like a chore, a hard work that makes them very, very tired. When I go into the garden, it's a meditation to me. I open all my senses to the garden and I get immersed in it. So it's an activity that I enjoy. I don't try to accomplish so much, but just enjoy the process itself. So I'm going to share some exercises for this. And then of course, like what would be a plant course without some tree hugging? And actually we are not going to hug trees because I think it's a very uncomfortable way of meditating with a tree. There are much better ways to do that, but we are going to talk about tree energetics, the energy bodies of trees, and we are going to do meditations with them. Trees have beautiful energy bodies, and meditating under a tree puts you in the center of their energy body, which is a beautiful experience. Now, we are also going to talk about how you can connect to trees for seeing, clarity and emotional healing. Trees have beautiful high dimensions of wisdom and clarity and when, for example, you are facing a difficult karma, where your view. So that's also a very beautiful exercise. Then spiritual plant care, which I just talked about, like how to build a connection with your plants and open your heart to them so they open their hearts to you. That's how you can also get yelled at by the plants, like my friend did, because you know, they talk. And then, oh, observing plants in places of power is so amazing, because they are so energized and empowered, and they are like different from the plants everywhere else, because they absorb the energy from the place of power. So we are going to talk about that too, using the rhythm of nature in gardening that's about moon cycles and their effect on plants and how you can use it in gardening, also other planetary considerations. And the one that's most exciting to me personally is exploring and working with the healing dimensions of herbs. So in herbal medicine, you basically get about 30% of herbal medicine from actually ingesting the plant, and 70% of it is about connecting to the healing dimensions of the plant, which you can pull from while you're growing your own herb, harvesting it and ingesting it. You can pull the healing dimensions into the herb and into the healing. So that's very fascinating to me. So I'm going to talk about that too. Next slide please. So why are we doing this? What are the benefits of this? So first of all, any mystical track like this one or the Mystic School track as well, opens you to the second attention. So when you do mystical exercises, it helps you experience energies and dimensions better. So especially for those of you who have problems connecting to the second attention, you don't see or feel any energies in your meditations, this might be very helpful. The other very important thing is that on the path, we often push ourselves very hard and we push ourselves out of our comfort zone a lot, which is a very important part of the path because that's how we can grow personal power and overcome karmas. So it's not something that we want to avoid. But it's nice sometimes when we get a little tense about this to be able to balance out. And plants are naturally beings of balance and wisdom. So when you hang out with them, you go into their dimensions, it brings you to a natural state of peace and harmony and also opens your heart. So there are going to be a lot of heart chakra dimensions here. And if you have heart chakra blocks, you have a problem experiencing joy, love or balance, this can be a really good course for you to kind of improve that. And of course just like Mystic Scuba, doing these exercises will help you clear your aura and remove toxicity from it. Next slide, please. We also will have a recommended reading. It's also not mandatory, but it's very helpful. It's going to be Wildem from Toro. It's one of my favorite books. Sometimes I read it every day. Toro was a very serious yogi and mystic who decided to move the place of power into the forest by himself. The way he's experiencing and describing what he went through in this forest and the way he's connecting to nature, the dimensions and energies in it, are very, very similar to what I'm going to talk about. So it's very helpful to read this book. You kind of have to get through the first 60 pages because he talks a lot about how he just wants to get away from society and all that. Which is also interesting, he has a really beautiful mind, but it's not about nature. So once you read through that and you arrive to the place where he's talking about the forest and the energies and the plants, that's gonna be helpful for this course. Next slide, please. Okay, so that was the course intro, and now we are actually going to go through the first exercise that you can do in the next month. By the way, I'm going to send out a sign-up sheet after this, so if you sign up, then you will be able to join the rest of the course, but it's not going to be, as I said, it's not going to be automatically expected from you to do this. But if you're interested, try this exercise and see if it's something that works for you. So here it goes. Go to a forest by yourself. So don't take anybody with you. Or you can, but then once you go through the experience, separate from that person. So don't go with somebody who will keep you company and who will talk to you. You have to be alone in this experience. Step out of the human world, meaning turn off your devices. I know it's hard, but you can do it. And then as you're walking through the forest, start opening all your senses to it. So hear the birds, touch the trees, feel the breeze on your face, and please don't taste anything. That's really important. You can taste the air or the raindrops, but nothing from the forest. So as you open your senses and focus on the forest, you will automatically start merging with it. So just immerse yourself into this beautiful green energy around you. And an extra exercise is to focus on your breath. I don't know if you know this, but we are connected to plants with every single breath that we take. When we inhale, we inhale oxygen that the plants produce for us through photosynthesis. And then when we exhale, we provide carbon dioxide for the plant that they actually need for their photosynthesis. So without each other, we couldn't really exist. And you can observe these connections through your breath as you're walking through the forest. So that's your exercise and I wanted to recommend a few places for this. In Hawaii, I've been exploring a lot of trails in Hawaii and one of the most beautiful ones that I found was the Makua La'o'oma Trail. It's the cloud forest trail. There's one trail in the cloud forest you can find in Kona. And the trail that I like there is the Lower Jurassic Trail. It's kind of like a loop, and the Lower Jurassic Trail is one part of it. It's a short trail, it's about 1.2 miles, but it's the most intense forest experience I've ever had in my life when I went there. you can't feel anything. You can't feel humans, you can't feel the world at all, because this place is so strong. And you can feel this very, very intense, strong green vibration that's there, that just vibrates through you. So I can highly recommend going to this place. You have to be careful with the weather there, because you can only go out there when it's sunny in Kona. If it's overcast in Kona, then it's raining cats and dogs up there. So if it's sunny in Kona, then it's probably overcast up there. It's a very humid area, so... and it tends to be muddy too. So in the Bay Area, I love the skyline to the sea trail. That's in the Santa Cruz Mountains. So one thing about the Santa Cruz Mountains in the rainy season is that, you know, in the summer everything gets really slow. The plants slow down because there's no moisture for them to do photosynthesis, but when the rain comes, they all get so happy. So I love that for us in the rainy season, walking there you can feel the euphoria of the trees. They are kind of like singing in happiness and everybody is just breathing. So it's so beautiful to be there by yourself just walking through the forest. So I highly recommend that. I don't know if the Europeans are still on the call. I know it's winter in Europe, so it's a little bit trickier, and it's going to be a different experience, but you can try to experiment going into the winter forest, where you can experience the deep peace of the forest. So one of my favorite things in Hungary in the winter when everybody is depressed is to go into nature. You just have to find a place that's pure and there are no people because people tend to bring their depression with them. So you don't want to experience that. But if you find a place that's pure, let's say in Hungary it could be the Pilis, for example, or the Balatonfellvédék, there are no people, everything is quiet, you can experience how the trees are sleeping and you can connect to this deep peace yourself. So that's the exercise. I'm going to send it out in an email too, so you don't have to remember it. And we are going to meet again with those of you who are interested in a month. So I would like to finish with meditation and in this meditation I'm going to open this word for you and I would like to ask you to please focus on your heart. It's going to be one song. And just relax and allow this experience.

1:12:31
Let's begin.

1:12:33
Oh Don't come back to come in to so So So Don't come in here If death Don't come If death Please don't follow me no more When you feel this heavy ground Happiness, come on It's the shivering glass of the sky And the night is in the jazz of your mind The queen in the blue, isn't she? Called freedom, coming from the sea And I'm just a man, just a man, just a man, just a man And it's the same thing over and over again And it's the same thing over and over again And it's the same thing over and over again And it's the shivering waves of the sky And the naked chance to tell you why Is the crazy girl blind? Couldn't take his hand and help me now The sun is beside me The crazy girl blind You can play the game, change the world You can play the game, change the world Thank you for joining me.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
