0:00:00
Welcome to Ananda Aina and we are going to commence with meditation. So actually what time is it right now?

0:00:17
8.02.

0:00:18
8.02, okay. 8.02 is our commencement time. So we're going to start with meditation and we're going to meditate for one song on the heart. And this will be the beginning of Ananda Ina. Sit up nice and straight. And let's begin. Oh,

0:00:42
so so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, All right, wonderful. So here we are in Hawaii, the big island, and a whole bunch of us here, we're all wearing leis and they're beautiful. It's a Hawaiian tradition, to wear flowers.

0:02:00
So this is a beautiful opportunity for us to be together and for us to share together the commencement of Ananda Aina. So, tonight I'm going to talk a little bit about Ananda Aina, this place, what it is. And we started it with this meditation, but there's a couple more considerations to consider. And then we're going to take a look at some pictures of the place and then hear some more about the considerations of this place in an astrological view. Alright. So I've had some time to reflect on this place the first time I saw the land. And I saw that this place is pretty happy. It's a place that's quite joyful. And it's something that I've always noticed about South Dakota. I always thought South Dakota is a pretty happy place to be. I've been to the Big Island many, many, many times. And being here I've always felt South Kona is a very special place and one of the happier places on the planet. So that's why when I came to the land here, I thought of Ananda. I said, what is the thing that I feel here? And it is this bliss, this divine bliss. And so I said, yes, okay, this place has to be known as Ananda. And then I started looking up some of the Hawaiian words as well, because I thought it'd be nice to have a Sanskrit word and a Hawaiian word. So that's why it's Ananda. Aina, aina means land. So it's land of bliss, which is slightly better than Land of Lakes, which is a brand of butter in America. So different places have different missions, different energies, different things that you do. And on this land, in this place, happy. Now, being happy in a place of power, on your spiritual journey, on your pilgrimage through the world, through life, being happy is also a lesson. Because I remember my teacher, my first year where I moved to New York, one of the first teachings was, okay, now that you're in New York, you have to be happy every day. And I was like, wow, now New York is not a place of happiness. So we have a lot going on here to help us. But nevertheless, there was a teaching that my teacher gave, was the teaching of being happy. And I remember, you know, I tried, you know, went to the first satsang, learned to be happy, and I tried to be happy, but I was pretty stressed out because it was New York. And then I remember, you know, he kept on teaching about it and teaching about it. And then I remember it was one February, middle of February, and I got my car stuck in a snow bank. And then I was like, you know, I tried to get it out and the more I would get it out, it would slide more into the bank. And it was the bank was like on a hill. And like, I was like, I'm going to lose my car. It's going to go over the hill, or I'm just not going to get it back until it thaws out in the springtime. And so I decided to walk home and I was walking home and I was just like, oh man, I'm not happy. And I was like, oh wait, I'm walking five miles to get home, my car's stuck in a snowbank, and I'm happy. And I just found that happiness in the dharma of this lesson of happiness. And then I was happy. Two minutes later, a carload of a few of my friends came by and saw me walking out in the middle of the street in Westchester, New York. And they stopped and said, hey, what's going on? I said, ah, my car. And then they got out and we all like got ropes and we pulled my car out of the snow bank somehow. And then I was even happier. So if you could be happy in the middle of New York when you get your car stuck in a snow bank, yeah, if you can be happy there, you can be happy here. It's a little easier if you've got a little bit more incentive, no snow banks, you know. So there's a lot of good energy here to support that teaching. So this is a place of happiness and a teaching of happiness. And then you go, okay, so if there's no snow banks, then what are we going to do to be happy? Anything. But you know, they say ignorance is bliss, and I'm happy to report I have no idea So there is an innate joy to life and the lesson here is to get in touch with that and the beauty of this place of power and also to find that reflected in your heart. Life is beautiful. Life is joyful. I mean there's all sorts of things to life but you can be joyful in life you can be happy in life so this this is the place of Ananda place of happiness so the Tibetan Buddhists say you know that we have a precious human life and in understanding that alone we should be happy we should be just filled with joy. And they say, hey, you know, there's so many types of animals, you know, you could have been reincarnated as an ant and you wouldn't have had, you know, this ability to learn meditation or come together with this spiritual group of wonderful people or to, you know, catch COVID-19 or, you know, like so many wonderful things in having a human life. Ants can't catch that. And so, no, but like there's just, there's so many wonderful things just to be alive, just to have fun, to see the good things, to be powerful, to meditate, to reflect on life, to reflect on consciousness. Like there's so many wonderful things about the human existence and you got one of those. Boom! I was reading this article about some other country who cloned, who created a human clone and he used his own DNA and he was so like he was overjoyed that he created this human clone he was beside himself so a human life is a beautiful thing even if you have to clone one. So it's really important you know to recognize all of the good things in your life. The miracle of life, breathing, the miracle of breathing, just taking in a breath, feeling the energy of the breath. This becomes a very important thing when you're scuba diving. It's like you recognize breath as being so beautiful. Everything in life is beautiful. Your life is a miracle. You're a miracle. And you have to recognize all of the great things. See that your life has just given you so many blessings that the universe has also given you many teachers and teachings and many wonderful gifts so that's it's important to recognize all of the wonderful things that you've received in life that gives you a lot of joy when you reflect on that. So, there's three types of people in the world. First is the person who's happy because they recognize the miracle of life and all of the life and all of the gifts that life has given. And the second type of person is the one who can't count. This is our unfoldment of the Dharma. This place, Ananda Iyengar. It's a place of power that I had foretold over 20 years ago. It's like, hey guys, we're going to Hawaii.

0:15:50
And I go, okay, let's go.

0:15:51
I'm like, not just yet. We've got a few things to do before we can make it there. But now, now we've, we've made it here. We've made it here as a sangha. So even though you're not here in the physically in Hawaii, when we, when we are connecting in spirit, you're here in Hawaii. So maybe, you know, you live in Europe or something, you've never been to Bodhi Woods, but you've always been able to have the dimensions of Bodhi Woods as support. This is what we do as Buddhist mystics. We make connections with places and we can support the teachings through these places. So we do that with places of power that we visit and places of power that we live and we create these structured places like retreats, like Bodhi Woods, like the Dharma Villa. Sometimes we do dojos, Saratoga Dojo, Panoramic Dojo. These are places where we derive power. And when there's a Dharma Dojo or Panorama Dojo, it's a place that actually brings power to the whole sangha. So when we come together, united, and when we follow the structure of a dojo or a retreat, there's a power to it. And it's a power in the second attention that affords light, blessings, and power to all in our sangha. So it's part of our structure. So even if you don't come here for a long time, I suggest you do come here sometime, but even if you don't make it here for a long time, you'll be able to connect with the dimensions of Ananda because Ananda is a very, very integral part of our Sangha now. It's a very integral part of our spiritual teachings. Very, very, very important. And really it's been the main goal since I started teaching. So now it's like, okay, let's get ready. All right, now we're going to really do it. So this is Ananda. Now Ananda is, Ananda Aina is a special place. So we've what we call Bodhisitta dojos in the past. And we say that we created Bodhi Woods as a place of Bodhisitta. Now, Ananda is a little bit different. So in Ananda, Ananda is not a Bodhisitta dojo. Ananda is a place that is not a dojo. Dojo is a place of struggle and refinement where you develop your skills. Ananda is a higher dimension than that. And it's a dimension not to be a trier or a striver or a seeker, but it's a dimension to be, to be. And to be happy. So this is new for us and this is a new dimension. Being, and being aware of being, and being happy, and being aware of being happy. So this is a new one. I call it the Yoga of Joy and the Yoga of Joy is a yoga and it's a yoga of being positive and happy. That's it. So here at Ananda Ina all you have to do is have a positive mind and be happy and then what happens in let's say in the second ascension structures is Ananda Ina is like a very powerful antenna and it and it and it puts out this you know massive megahertz of good vibes and so vibes. And so here's the good news here. If you can be happy here, then you could be giving happiness to others. So this is still our work for ourselves, our dharma cultivation, but also as an offering for all others. This is very important. It's a very integral part the Aina is that through the refinement of ourselves, mindfulness, and being happy, being positive, simple, positive thoughts, joy, and happiness, by doing that, you have a tremendous effect. It's like the fourth gate of Bodhicitta. So the fourth gate of bodhicitta is when you're like, okay, I'm gonna do bodhicitta and compassion for the whole universe, all sentient beings, every single one of them. Right? So we have to, in bodhicitta we build up to that. First we do some compassion for ourself, then we think about somebody that we kind of feel sorry for, and we think about some jerk we're angry at, the bigger groups of people, and then finally we can, we go into that vast view of enlightenment for all and practice taking and sending and this is all extremely good and Ananda Aina the Bodhisitta is like a lower dimension and here we just have a there's a higher dimension in a higher way the yoga of joy and then the yoga of joy you just have to be happy and positive and then there's this

0:22:07
There's this there's a power there's a power to it

0:22:10
and When you're positive and happy guess what you're positive and happy but There is a powerful selfless element to this yoga and it is the yoga of joy when you when you do it here in this place or in the mindset of Ananda Ina, then you actually bring happiness and joy to all sentient beings. So that's why this is a place of power. It has a very powerful amplifying nature of your joyful, happy energy. That's what this place is. So this place is a win-win, right? It's a win for you because you're happy and it's a win for everyone on the island, everyone on the planet, everyone in every loca. So this is the special work of this place. And it's very good work. I remember a story of a doctor. He was kind of an herbalist. And he came to a new town, opened up shop, no one was coming to him. So he had a promotion, and it was, I'll heal anything, any ailment you have, any illness for $20. But I am guarantee if I don't heal you, I'll give you $100. So there's this guy walking by and he sees the sign and he goes, I'm gonna, I'm

0:23:46
gonna scam this guy.

0:23:47
I'm gonna make some money. Right.

0:23:48
I'm gonna make some money right so he comes over and he comes in and he says My problem is that I lost my sense of taste completely So he's thinking all right, he's gonna give me some herbs and then I'm gonna still say yes I still want my taste. And the guy goes, okay, so let's see, here in box number four, there's this little bottle and three sips of this and you'll have your taste back. So he goes, okay. So he takes a little sip and he's all, ah, it tastes horrible and then the guy turns around and says, oh, look, it's lighter fluid and then he goes it healed you and so he goes ah he's like $20 all right there you go the next day he's kind of like I know I got to fix this because okay trick see let's see this time I'll come in with something All right. Today, lost my memory. Don't remember anything, it's all gone. He's like, there's no way he's gonna be able to catch me on this. He'll give me some stuff and I'll be like, still don't remember anything. So the guy goes, okay. Box number 14, this little thing, take three sips of this, it'll completely heal your memory. He goes, I'm not drinking that again.

0:25:41
Lighter fluid.

0:25:43
Then he's all, you're healed!

0:25:45
$20.

0:25:47
And then he goes, ah, I'm gonna go.

0:25:49
Then he goes, next day he's all, okay, I'm gonna come up with another.

0:25:51
So he goes in and he says,

0:25:53
I'm blind. Can't see a thing. Then the guy goes, okay, box number 14. He goes, no man, you gave me, I can hear you saying box number 14 and isn't that stuff? I was going to heal you. He goes, no, it doesn't heal me, man, it would have healed me yesterday. He goes, I guess you're right, I don't have anything for you. And he's like, all right, I win. That's great. So he goes, all right, here's your $100. And he hands him a $1 bill. And he goes, hey, $1 bill.

0:26:38
And he goes, you're a killer.

0:26:43
$20.

0:26:43
See, that's the win-win.

0:26:46
So win, win.

0:26:47
All right. So, but seriously, folks, this is a place of great joy and really, really special. Now this is a place where we're in a jungle, you would think that would be very, very, very strong yin energy. Because it usually is. Jungles, usually very yin energy. And then in the yin energy, what you kind of sit around, right? But actually, this place has a really nice balance. A really nice balance of energy. There's one very strong reason why. It's the lava rocks. So this is a jungle that is growing out of, you know, a volcano. So this is all lava rock here and the lava rock has very good energy. You can just look at a lava rock, you can meditate on a lava rock and it's got very good energy. So the energy bounces off the lava rocks and then the more it bounces the faster the vibration. So we have, now if you were just on the lava rock, like if you go down the road to the second lava flow, those of you who are here, you can just go 10 minutes down that way. There's a lava flow where there's no jungle because it was more recent. And the lava rock is super intense, but after a few minutes, you feel very uncomfortable there. It's just like, whoa, it's super intense. Yeah, but here you got that intensity covered up by the yin energy of a jungle. So that yin and yang together are both, they create a place of power together, but it is a balanced place of power. So this is a good place. You can sit down here and work. You can work, you can computer program. It's a good place for concentration. But at the same time, it's a good place for relaxation, it's a good place for inner reflection, it's a good place to meditate. So this is a strong place for meditation. I remember when I was coming to look at the place, I came during the day and the evening to see what it was like to meditate on the land. And it's a very strong place for meditation, place of powerful meditation, but it's like a very joyful balanced meditation. So this is a very fortunate thing. This is also a place of seeing. So from Ananda I know you can look out and see the ocean. And that is often in places that have a view. There are places that have some seeing dimension. And the seeing that is here is a seeing of inner patterns. So it's not kind of telling the future or which stocks to pick or lottery numbers. It goes hand-in-hand with meditation because it's very good for inner reflection. So this is a very nice place. People have different cycles of patterns sometimes of sensitivity, cycles of power, and when you start to know how to catch the wave you know or enter the cycle so that you so that you can advance advance faster. This is also a place of warriors. Big Island is a island of warriors and they're very cantankerous and they want to go and defeat someone from Maui. So it has this energy too, like this warrior energy. So an Ananda Aina, you have to be a martial artist because you have to be mature in your practice so that you have so you exercise and you do martial arts is the best and then in martial arts you'll be able to transform any like struggle energy into you having greater power and ability. place that is very strong to be a warrior, but an andahaina mostly is a place to develop, to really develop and really live the child caretaker personality. So this is a place, you know, it's joyful to be a child and this is a place that has a beautiful purity. So if you're walking around trying to be a warrior and impeccable all the time then you'll kind of miss the point. Be a warrior when you have to get on your computer and do your work, be a warrior when you're in the dojo and you're doing martial arts. Those are the two places for it. But the mindfulness is to be a child, to be happy, to be innocent, to be peaceful, to get to the simpler nature of your being and to, you know, look at the wonder of the world. So this is a place to practice the child. This is not a very emotional place. It's more a place of perspective and reflection. So, the child is a very good one here. Be a child. Now, in order to make this shift, we're going to make a shift from the old way to the new way. So this is a very new opportunity within this saga, new level, new dimensions, new opportunity of being and existence and of the Dharma. And in order to do it you have to do one radically important thing and I would like all of you to do that with me. We're going to Forget everything else That means Let go of the past Let go of any description of the world any description of yourself who you are what you can do You have to let something, you gotta let go of attachments and views of the self. Because if you hold on to the old way you used to do things here, then you won't catch on to this new amazing beautiful this beautiful dharma. So I'd like you to let go of the self. The past is dust. All old ways, all old hurts, pains, difficulties, and all old accomplishments and anything. We're just gonna we're gonna do a little mystic meditation and this is just uh sit up nice and straight, close your eyes, and I want you to envision holding in your hands all of the attachments of the self, all your old ideas, all the old ways, the time that someone did you wrong, the person that you blamed for that, the thing that you got over on somebody else with. Like take all the stuff, all of your ideas and attachments and then hold them in your hands like it's a bunch of garbage. And then in this exercise we're going to drop it. We're going to drop it like a hot potato. We're going to take all of that stuff, we're going to feel all of that heaviness, all of those attached ideas, all that self, all that ego, all that emotional reaction, and we're going to drop it on the count of three. In your mind, I just want you to drop it away, and it falls and disperses and is gone. Ready? One, two, three.

0:36:26
Yeah, I like that. Feels lighter all of a sudden, okay.

0:36:30
Gotta let go of the old stuff. I remember we did this one time when we moved to Oahu. I was trying to explain the same thing. And so what I did was I took the guys out, and the gals, we went out to the beach and then I had them grab, actually we went into the water and then I had them grab a whole bunch of sand in both hands and then we went out where it was too deep to stand so they had to swim and I said, come on follow me and they followed me and then everyone's all like, I can't do it anymore. And I'm like, well, you know, do what you got to do. So then they would drop it and then we just keep swimming. And they're all, okay, whew. Okay, now I can swim. And then I was like, see, see how hard it is to just swim when you're carrying all that stuff. Except for Ajna. Ajna was able to carry it and keep swimming he was actually like swimming like way above oh my god he's kind of like a dolphin but then once you let it go he's like oh yeah now I can relax but he was a strong swimmer yeah so it's important you got to let go of stuff gotta let go of stuff so that you can embrace something new. So together we let go of the old, the past and stuff. Whenever these cycles come to mind instead of embracing the past then open your mind to the Ananda Ayna which is joy and happiness, a new day, a new way. All right so now I'd like to conclude with one meditation. And in this meditation, this is where I'm going to start doing some work. This is going to be an Ananda-Aina alignment. Alignment of this energy and this dharma with the sangha. So, sit up nice and straight. We're going to do a meditation, and this meditation again is on the heart. So sit up nice and straight just have a soft focus on the heart. All right, let's begin.

0:38:59
So, So. So So so so You Wonderful. This is beautiful. So now we're going to go into just a little presentation of pictures.

0:43:43
Just some pictures of the place. I just want to, for those of you who haven't seen it on the Aina, I'll just show you some pictures that Rod took this afternoon. And then we're going to go into a presentation with Savitri to talk a little bit about what we're going to do here in terms of design and then we're going to have Mudra give us a reading, an astrological reading about this place.

0:44:15
Yay!

0:44:16
So, what shall I do to start the pictures?

0:44:20
That will be a start.

0:44:23
Oh, okay.

0:44:24
Do you want Mudra to pull the chart for 802 p.m. Yeah, yeah

0:44:30
Hey, okay, well

0:44:32
This is the main door. This is this is the entry and This is also no, this is just beyond entry. Oh, I was just kind of going through it. Look there's a pool You guys do this yeah, okay, and that's next to the pool, looking out towards the pool. This is the great room, they call it, like a living room. Hey, nice pictures. All right. Huh. Yeah, so these are just some pictures of inside the house, the kitchen. Now it's a big kitchen, which is important. Because as we all know, Buddhist monks like to hang out in kitchens. They like the meditation hall, but if it's not the meditation hall, the fun stuff happens in the kitchen. Very nice the outside. So this is the main house that we've been looking at. And this is also the main house. We're just looking at the different sides. Oh look! Now we're looking down from the second house. Now we're in the second house. This is called an Ohana, which is a smaller house. It is a happy house. So we're just looking across the land here from one house towards the other. Yeah, that's a picture of the Ohana. Nice, really pretty. Is that it? Okay, cool. All right, so I just wanted... Oh, there's more! And then there's more. Oh, that's pretty too. This is on the deck of the Ohana. It's a nice view from there. Ah, those are our water tanks. and the barn behind it. So we have a barn and water to catch rain. They didn't hear me say anything? No, there was a video. Oh. That's okay. I didn't hear anything either.

0:46:54
Including myself.

0:46:56
Alright everyone. So I just wanted to show everybody a little bit of Ananda Aina. Now, Ananda Aina is like a big piece of land. I was just looking at it, I was like, wow. Now that we have this, I'm like, whoa. It's a big, big job. Like I was looking, it goes like a mile up the hill. Do you guys see the back of it? You can see the back from the Ohana. It's like the, there's like this forest way up there and you're like, what's that? That's the end of your land. Let's go do some gardening. It's a mile of gardening. So anyway, we'll have many adventures here. Adventures in gardening and everything. So now we're going to move on to Savitri. Savitri is going to tell us a little bit about what we're going to do. You know, how we're going to kind of work with the property in terms of the houses and the gardens and the farming.

0:48:20
Are you going to do it from there? You can come up. This is me. Okay.

0:48:26
Okay, now I have the sound.

0:48:28
So I'm presenting on.

0:48:31
On behalf of the design teams we have many teams working on an underwriter right now, and the design team is one of those so this deck is the work of Nigel and so she and Donna and Pavan and Asha and some borrow who set the tone for it with his Pinterest board. Next slide. So the reason why we wanted to have a design team at all is that we really felt it's important for a non diana to be a place that is thoughtful and intentional and has a cohesive set of aesthetics and experience across the entire property. So starting with the two houses that we inherited from the previous owners, and then as we add a meditation hall and other structures, we want it to all feel really beautiful and refined and intentional. And the reason for that is to have some unity and balance with this place and to really honor the land that we're on and the energy that's here by offering to it a refined set of additions. We want that to be an expression of the teaching. So we know that when we're in a place of really high tonal, we feel uplifted and it's even easier to feel joyful and inspired. So we want this to be a very refined, beautiful place that supports everyone in their practice of being joyful and of course conducive to the liberation of many people, to the enlightenment of our sangha. So, yeah, so those of you who are here. If you've been here before you'll recognize most of these photos and those of you who are watching from the mainland I look forward to getting to become familiar with the nature of the big islands because it's incredibly profound and there's a tremendous energy throughout the entire islands, including the land that we're on. And these photos give you a sense of it. Next slide. Oh, there's a like thank you. So, in addition to the natural beauty there are some places here that have already done a really tremendously beautiful job of working with the land and having incredibly high tone now so we have a couple of photos here I think from the mountain Lonnie resort And that's a good illustration for us, although we won't necessarily look exactly like this. Unless someone has like an extra hundred million dollars. This is another example, one of the really beautiful hotels a little farther north. Again, not exact style but what we might be going for. We, the design team has named our style Bali chic inspired by some bars vision for the place. And we are envisioning Bali chic. This is an example to give you a taste of it.

0:51:44
As being modern, sleek, really refined,

0:51:49
simple foundation with Balinese art accents that we intend to go to Bali to get once it's safe to travel there. So we'll have a modern interior. Not the vintage 1979 and 1980s that you've been here have been walking around in but we will also make really refined honoring the jungle of the place and incorporating Indonesian Buddha statues. These are some examples of the interior. Again, thank you to Samparas Pinterest. You see this sleek bathroom counter and this beautiful stone bowl. You see the lights, the light fixtures and the, the woven material for accent pieces in the upper right there's a kitchen so please envision a very sweet kitchen with these again these natural lampshades and seating, this, this house that we're sitting in right now is quite amazing and that it has a lot of space where people can gather and will make good use of that. Let's go back to the garden. Yeah, one back to the garden slides for. So just some images of how we might incorporate Buddhas and other stone elements into landscaping. will be our barn, which is the undercover meditation hall, but it shall be known as the barn on the farm. These are not prototypes for it specifically, but they're examples of the inspiration and the vibe that we'll be going for. So very spacious walls that you can, you have a vast view and probably that open a very particular roof line that's reminiscent of temples. If you have questions and feedback, Nigel and I are the co drivers for the design team so you're welcome to send them to us and we'll be working on a report to the remodel team that got started yesterday and today, really, to work on these, these two houses that we have transforming them into what you something very similar to what you saw in the pictures. And then we'll also be working on an overarching style guide that explains what our color palette is what different materials we're using that can then continue as we do new construction. Yes, I think that is it.

0:54:56
So that's very exciting. So I remember when I was coming to South Kona, I was I don't remember how long ago, 1994, something like that. And I remember looking here and thinking, wow, this is an amazing place. And I always had it in my mind, I was like, how can you do some beautiful, you know, Asian garden, or, you know, how would you decorate down here? Because South Kona Coffee. So it's like, you know, this is the house here is a plantation style house. And then the Ohana is like a kind of very Hawaiian 1980s look, which is a little Asian-y looking kind of thing. But anyway, I was like, how would we do it? And then in 1998, I think I went to Bali and I was like, aha Bali Balinese art is amazing. It's just gorgeous and Bali has a lot of Buddhist art and Hindu art I used to a long time ago be a Buddhist island and now it's a Hindu island And it's an artisan island and it's one of the most magical islands I've ever been to. So because they are so good with stone carvings, stone lanterns, stone Buddhas, wooden carvings, wood Buddhas, and all these amazing, like they'll do these wall carvings with like hibiscus and, you know, just really beautiful things. Um, and all of, all of the art there matches with the island. And Bali is a jungle, kind of like here. So I was like, wow, Bali's art is that Buddhist, you know, Buddhist art in a jungle. Because, you know, a lot of people are thinking, how can we Zen this place? I'm like, oh, no, this house is It's not presentable. But it is, it'll work with Bollie. Bollie, if we can just make this like, kind of clean, and then Bolognese accents, it'd be really nice. So, very happy about that. Oh, I forgot to introduce you to this guy. Whoa, he's very bright. I'll hold him further back. This is Ananda Llama. So I just found Ananda Llama and said, hey you should come over here. And Ananda Llama said, okay. Anyway, so, just a fun thing. Alright, go ahead. My long neck my long neck pink Scotty All right, so now I'm gonna say Thank you. Come some doc. Mahalo and And now we're going to go into a reading with mudra and We can kind of take it as long as anybody wants to hang out. So Mudra said that he kind of would prepare like a 30 minute reading because it might be late for some of you in California, but maybe he'd be open for questions or we can go a little bit longer. I think we're okay to do that here in Hawaii. After the call with Mudra, if Vanna is available, I'd like to start to talk and answer some questions about the meditation hall design. And then if we can't do it tonight, Vana, I mean this morning, then we'll do it another

0:58:54
time.

0:58:55
Okay, so thank you all. Okay, so thank you all. Mahalo.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
