0:00:00
Yeah, I wanted to go to Mauna Loa because Mauna Loa is so wonderful. But Mauna Loa, the problem is that the military base has been growing and growing. So at night, there's these glaring lights from the military base. So even the last like two or three times that we've been there. I was like, I love the feeling of the mountain, but I hate looking at those glaring lights. They totally annoy me. So I remember the old days where there was there was no military base there and it was this beautiful peaceful valley. And then what you can do is you can hike up the mountain and get over the hill and then you're at the kind of flat part on top. And then up there it's gorgeous, it's beautiful, very powerful, but it's a six mile hike up road, you know, just yeah, kind of lava rock just like this. So, it's a little bit too much. But Mauna Loa is a really beautiful place of power and it's a very kind of Shiva energy. So, I thought that might be a nice energy for ending the But then, this place is an amazingly beautiful place of power. And it's very, very, very pure. Because this is some of the newest land in the world, right? This is all from Kilauea. And it's just very, very, very pure here and this is also a really nice place symbolically because Kilauea is spewing forth new stuff. All right, wonderful. So it looks like we're all here. Welcome. Welcome to the enlightenment teaching. That's what I call this teaching. We're gonna start off with meditation. So we're gonna do a lot of meditation this evening sometimes like one song Sometimes three songs so I gave job a whole bunch of playlists and I'm like, yeah, whenever it's right, we'll just start Playlisting and I don't know if it's gonna be one song or three songs Because I just If we get to it... But I want to do a lot of meditation. But it'll either be a one song meditation or a three song meditation. And then whatever we get, that's what happens. So we're going to start off, I'd like you to bring your focus to the third eye. Just a light focus on the third eye. All right? Japa, are you on it? You're ready to do the music? Okay. Jump up. Everything's set up. This is cool. That's a cool droid. Alright, set up nice and straight, and let's begin. the

0:04:16
the the the the the the the So, so so you So wonderful. All right, so tonight there's a very powerful teaching, an enlightened teaching, and it's a twofer.

0:09:24
And that means that there's two aspects of this teaching. seeing beyond the self, transcending the self by negating reality, finite reality. And then when you negate finite reality, then there's the infinite, then there's the finite too, And at the same time. Yeah, so this is a very very very very very powerful teaching. And then there's another aspect that I discovered in knowing that I was going to give this teaching, knowing that you were all going to be here, knowing that you all were giving so much to the temple to build a pyramid. It's really a bond. So knowing this was all coming, in my meditations and in the second intention, I did a deep dive and I came across a teaching straight out of Daily City, straight out of the Kala Chakra. It's a teaching, a transmission. And when I first got the Kalachakra empowerment, Rama said, there's many advanced teachings and transmissions that are enlightenment transmissions. And he said that the Kalachakra was the first of the enlightenment transmissions. And then, you know, then after that, he did some advanced teachings, but he never said there was another transmission. He said there's power transmissions that he gave us, but he never said that he gave us another enlightenment transmission like the Kala Chakra. Anyway, I found one. I did. Yeah, in knowing what we were going to come into tonight here, yeah, months ago, I found this transmission. So I'll be also giving that transmission. And that seems It is and it isn't. It is, but it's not that big of a deal. How can it be? So Rama said during the intermediate study, he said, if you could exercise, if you could meditate every day, if you can exercise about 45 minutes a day, four to five days a week, and if you could have a computer programming job, instead of doing those three things, you can become enlightened. I was like, oh, I do those things. All of them very poorly. Just kidding. But it's true. It takes a certain amount of discipline and power and attention of the mind to become enlightened. But it's not this impossible feat. It's something that is very doable. That's really important because we build up these ideas that enlightenment is some grandiose thing, some flying unicorn or something, you know, and and then you know we will not read stories of Padmasambhava and oh man that's never gonna be me or you might see another enlightened teacher But it is you. So the most important teaching is to accept your enlightenment. It is to accept your Buddha nature. So I gave a teaching on the Buddha nature. You got one. Where is it? Is it here? Oh, I found it. You can't miss it. But yeah, you know, this profound truthful teaching is that And tonight, the most important thing for you to do is to accept that. Accept that fact. Because when you can accept that enlightenment is within you, then these teachings will expose enlightenment and you can transcend the self. I'm saying this all yeah so an important thing to recognize is that there's Yana Yoga, where you're like, I already know all this. And I'm like, who am I anyway? I don't know what that is. AnandaST1, he was, after enlightenment, he was running a big yoga company. And they were, and they, they built their own software language to build their software because it was that important. And so, I mean, they were really techie. Anyway, he was like, he was like, yoga is like riding a horse. And on the saddle is a, what was it? A cactus. He was like, really? I never thought it was so difficult. No one has ever said that. Not even Lula Rapa. So yeah, karma yoga is some pretty intense work. Yeah, so there's different paths. And we have this one really cool path. It's part of our everything. But it can be part of bhakti, jnana, karma, yoga. And you might call it an esoteric aspect or or even a mystical aspect and it is Enlightenment through transmission so Fortunately If you just hang around an enlightened person Start learning things. Well Buddha said you could be a fool and miss the way. You can be with a Buddha your whole life and miss the way. But if you're with an enlightened person and you're doing a pretty good job and you're kind of going for it, and you're getting, and if they have those transmissions, those esoteric teachings, then enlightenment comes through transmission. So the good thing is, you know, that's why it worked for me. Because I just hung out with Rama and I was trying to do everything. I thought I sucked at it. But I was, by doing yoga, by meditating, by trying to be mindful, by doing everything that I possibly could, I was making myself a proper vessel for the transmission. And so I didn't do really the thing that would make me enlightened, it was actually transmitted to me. And I think Kala says this as well. He's like, you know, it's just, you know, it was just given, it was transmitted, enlightenment. And I was along for the ride. So one of the great fortunate things about this school and the way that the teachings of enlightenment work is that it's a transmission. So it's actually not you who does it. It's just transmitted We used to call the SC4s logs, right? And the analogy is if you take a proper log and put it next to a big flaming log, then that log, that proper log, if it's properly prepared, just put it right next to it or close to it, and then it eventually will catch fire. That's the, I think, the Zen way of talking about this same thing. It happens. And it just happens as a part of nature. It just happens because that's what transmission is. So that log has to be dry. It can't be like some fresh cut green log that will just sit there and smoke, make a lot of smoke, and it will be very unpleasant. But if it's a dry log and you put it next to a flaming log, it will catch fire. That's why with the S.E. Boris, we have to write logs. Then it works. So that's transmission. So that log didn't do nothing. It was just, it had the proper conditions. It was dry. It had a dry sense of humor. And it was sitting and it sat next to the flaming log and then it catches fire. So that's what transmission is. So the important thing to understand is that you've had so many transmissions. So you've done all this work in your yoga, in meditation, martial arts, scuba diving, everything. You've done all this work to become a proper log. And now you're ready to be hit. Oops. Or a proper, you become a proper vessel. Like a good bucket that you can fill. Yeah. Buckets. So this is a really important thing to understand because you really need to understand that there's nothing for you to do. There's nothing for you to do. When you're beginning and intermediate and even in the beginning of the dance there's everything to do do stuff do stuff do stuff then it comes down to you can do stuff or not do stuff and nothing will help or hinder the enlightenment. Now, when Rama would talk about enlightenment, when he was, you know, alive and teaching, what we call fully enlightened. And he had achieved that level of enlightenment and he would only talk about that perfect, perfect, perfect enlightenment. And then when he gave us the Palataka empowerment, he's all, you guys could become enlightened. And then we're all, yeah right. You know we sat there for 10 years or 20 years for the SD ones where you're all like enlightenment show up here anyway then he said no you can become enlightened and then he talked about a primary enlightenment and then in the college I'll be teaching support for the second level of enlightenment and the third level of enlightenment and those are amazing levels of enlightenment. Salute! And, well you guys gotta see that though, there's like sun rays over the mountain. Gorgeous. Yeah, so, but here's the thing about, even about primary enlightenment. So, you know, you get benefits from the practice. You know, have some nice meditative experiences, do some yoga, get some personal power, you know, things are going well. And then you have to get to a place where you get mature and you say, do I really want enlightenment?

0:25:39
Do I really want enlightenment? If you really want enlightenment

0:25:43
and nothing else

0:25:45
Then you'll be enlightened. But do you know how much work that is? Do you know how much you have to let go and yet you beat yourself up over this concept of enlightenment. Oh man I'm here to be enlightened I don't even want to be enlightened. you know, it's been happening. You hear from the teacher, like, it's this really cool thing. Which it is. And you go, yeah, sounds cool. But as you get close to it, you go, I don't really want it. Some people want it. But some people honestly don't. It's a lot to experience enlightenment. So it's kind of like, you know, when you die the Dharmakaya appears. And you go, oh, I don't know what that is. And as you start going up towards the light, you feel that the light's really beautiful and you start start to see all these divine angels and gods and grandpa and all sorts of stuff. And everyone's positive. They're all, yeah, man, cool. Yeah. You know, it's like super amazing. And then what happens is as the spirit gets closer to the Dharmapaya, you're like, yeah, that's a really nice light. I'm going into the light. And then you get closer to it and most people run. They're not interested. They don't want to merge with the light. They don't want to go into the that you attain primary enlightenment because it's cool. Yeah, primary enlightenment, check, off my bucket list. But primary enlightenment is a very, very, very intense thing. But you you might not want it. What it takes to to experience that is everything. You have to want enlightenment more than anything. You have to want it so much that you'll go through your you'll go you'll go through your stem scars let them go. You have to want them more than any you want you need to want enlightenment more than any desire more than any attachment. You have to face every fear. You have to, you know, really, really, really, it's an intense experience. Very intense. So the truth is that even advanced students usually don't want enlightenment. If you look at the Brahma school, there's a whole bunch of ST1s and ST2s. They did, they worked like crazy. They did so much yoga. They did all sorts of things. They went through so much hardships and stuff. And then you know when they were given the advanced teachings, most of them, almost all of them, didn't do anything with it. They don't even practice it. They gave up on it. They didn't believe they could become enlightened, and they didn't stop. They weren't ruthless, and they didn't stop at nothing to attain enlightenment. You do those two things, and you do a little aham om, then you'll come to, you will come to enlightenment. But you have to really, really do that practice. So most people, even though they loved to sit there with Rama. They loved to have high transcendent experiences and get transmissions and have lots of fun and all sorts of neat things. They loved all that stuff.

0:30:10
But they didn't really want enlightenment.

0:30:12
Because enlightenment, you have to give up the self. That is an extreme, like, difficult thing. It's not difficult. If you want it more than anything else, then it'll come. But then there's the other kind of enlightenment. And this is an enlightenment that I'm going to teach about tonight. It's called Moksha. It's self-realization. It's self-actualization. It's the enlightened self. And it is a realization. It is a liberation. It is, you know, getting rid of karmas. It is going into salvakoppa samadhi, but not nirvakappa samadhi. Salvakoppa samadhi is great. That's the realm of God realization, being one with everything. And in that realization, you can have self-realization. And you will be like, oh, I'm done with everything. But you'll still be you. There's something different that happens in going into nirvana. In nirvana, this self, in salvapropa the self becomes the best like you're like i'm one with everything i'm god i realize that i'm i'm the divine and that's but there's still some i there and then in and in nirvana, you got to really want it more than anything. And then you'll have it. But if you are not ready for that level yet, then the first level to attain is self-realization. So we're going to do a meditation and for one or three songs we're going to start, and this one is a beginning, clearing things away, but also you'll be able to feel the doorway to liberation. So instead of nice and straight, we're going to bring the focus to the third eye.

0:34:30
Let's begin.

0:34:32
the the the the so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the so the the the the So so I'm gonna make it back to you so So so so the world. Very nice. So remember my last teachings

0:43:54
on the Kalachakra practice? It was like bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam. You gotta have that focus and that momentum because that brings the Kundalini up. Even if you don't know it, it does. It's powerful. Enlightenment speaks up on you. But you had to have that Kundalini flow. And after a year or so of practice, you really have a strong flow of Kundalini. That is absolutely necessary to really enact these transmissions so you have that strong focus. Now most of you are also non-returners. So for Buddha that was his third level of liberation was the Arhat, which is like primary enlightenment. So we have this other one. There's many different types of realizations, different kinds of enlightenment. And self-realization is a very powerful one. A lot of you also have experienced salvacopa samadhi. And that's wonderful and fantastic. Now in this transmission, this transmission, it wires you in a way where amazing moment terror, the awakening, like, oh wow, that was a really good meditation. And now I'm pissed. Yeah. It's an awakening to the core level of spirit. So that's what we're here for. We're here for that samadhi and the transmission. So that samadhi brings you to a very pivotal moment. It's the moment where you transcend the self, but it's totally unlike anything else. It's just like... But there's a massive change. And even if you had Salva Kopasamadhi before, that's cool. You have this really good epiphany, high moment, a lot of wisdom, beautiful, fantastic, it's really good. With this transmission, when you have salvacoca smati, that's the moment where things change. That's where I say you break out of the gravity and then you're in orbit. It's a pivotal change. So it's not just a high meditation, which it is, but it's a high meditation where, yeah, in your heart you understand. And it goes beyond just a transient experience to a liberation place that frees you and you don't return. important things to do is to revisit your meditation. We're going to redo meditation. This is where meditation transforms from trying and working on it to mastering. So usually So, usually when we look at our meditation, we're sitting there going, I'm concentrating, but I'm thinking, and I'm bothered, and sometimes I have a nice time, maybe I see a little light, this is really kind of intermediate meditation. And the best way to do this is a very important step. You have to actually accept the divine, eternal, amazingness of your meditation. You'll go, well, my meditation doesn't go, it's good, it's hard, it's difficult. But you can have samadhi in every meditation, if you accept the enlightenment in every meditation. And this is what you have to do to be enlightened. So we're going to redo meditation. But you can also say, my meditation sucks. And like, you know, there was those guys in India who would sit there in Samadhi for 12 hours. And that's never going to happen to me. And probably neither. Or some of them, 12 years. They're sitting in Samadhi for years. Or, you know, under a lake bed. You know, a river bed in Samadhi. And, you know, we hear all these stories and we think, my meditation is not that. And so, if you think your meditation needs to be somebody else's meditation, you're wrong. And if you think that there's no Samadhi in your meditation, you're wrong. Anyway, a lot of things. But what you have to do is you have to, every time you meditate, say, this is my holy communion with eternity. It could never not be that way

0:51:18
and

0:51:20
When you sit down and meditate You might have thoughts Might be difficult, you know might be a pain or something like that, but when you sit down and meditate You're going to be patient through the thoughts, the thoughts come up, you bring the focus back to the chakra, and then when the light appears, and it will every time, then you open your heart, your mind, and your whole being to that light, and you will experience Savaka Samadhi. And then maybe a little Nirvakapa will get in there. You should be able to go into Samatha, Samadhi in every meditation. And even within a short period of time. You can sit down for a few minutes and you hit that light. The moment that you hit that light, the moment that you see the light, you merge with the light. And when you have this recognition that your meditation is perfect, that there's nothing to strive for, when the light arises in your mind and your attention, then you merge with the light. You don't try, you just merge with the light. And then you experience Salat Pappa Samadhi. It might be for a second, but it'll feel like a timeless time. It might be for a moment, but it will feel like an eternity moment. Or you might sit there for 12 years in Samadhi. It doesn't matter. You have to not say, this is good, this is bad. No, actually you have to judge the meditation. All meditations are perfect. All meditations are good. So you have to move beyond a place of struggle. You can't have some hallmark idea of what meditation is. You know, you've heard a story of some saint. Yeah, maybe that saint, yeah, he did some cool shit. That was great. But you're not that person and you don't have to do it their way. So you have to accept your enlightenment, accept your meditation as perfect meditation. Even Ramana said that meditation is a struggle. He said, that's what I like about meditation, it's really hard. And he was a great meditator. And me too. I think meditation is hard. It's difficult. It's intense. But it's perfect. And you know my experience of meditation is not something that you have to say, oh if I'm not having that experience, like you know, I'll sit down and I'll meditate and like it's really great, you know. It feels like I sit there for about 20 minutes, I go into Sava Kripa Samadhi for a long time, like like hours and I'm like, yeah, and I gained wisdom and balance and peace. So that's my story. And that's a cool experience. But your your Samadhi doesn't have to be like my Samadhi. And this is something that I didn't start off with when I started off, you know, experiencing Salva Copa Samadhi is for short periods of time, for moments. And yet there's so much light and wisdom and infinity in a moment like that. So you have to accept your meditation as perfect. Judge your meditation as perfect. And even if you're sitting there thinking for a while and your back hurts or whatever, you have to be like, you have to have this intent and a conviction to merge with the light. So the light will arise and you have to be like, I merge with with this light and it's perfect. It is perfect. And then, you know, after enlightenment, when I look back at my meditations where I was an intermediate student and I thought I sucked at meditation, I actually didn't suck at meditation. I thought I did, because I thought a lot and it was really hard and I struggled. But now looking back to my intermediate meditations, even beginning meditations, I see how those meditations were perfect. Those meditations were perfect. They did so many things inside of me to line me up to be in line. If I didn't do those, if I got bothered and quit or whatever, I wouldn't be enlightened. So it's like when I sat down as an intermediate student and meditated, and it was hard, and I thought I sucked at it, and I thought I was planting a seed of enlightenment. And then after time it grew into a ficus. And so after a while it blossomed. But even now I can look back when I said I sucked at meditation and see that I had perfect meditations. So every meditation is perfect. Even if you think you're a bad meditator, your meditation is perfect. So you got to go into the light. You got to sit there, concentrate, you know, do whatever, you know, like just get through whatever thoughts are happening or whatever influences in the world that are pressing on you. And then just hang in there and then the light will come. And then when the light comes, you will merge with the light. And in that merging with the light, you experience all the purpose of Samadhi. And then you judge your meditation as perfect meditation. We're going to do it right now. All right, so sit up nice and straight. And again, soft focus on the third eye. And we're going to sit. The wind's going to blow. You're going to be like, I'm a little uncomfortable. Everything that happens, like what you've ever, ever been through a meditation trip. Maybe it's a good one, maybe it's a bad one, who cares? But the light's going to come up. And when the light comes up, you have this intent to merge with the light. And you'll merge with the light. All right. So one to three songs. Let's begin.

0:59:05
You so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So So so so So Yeah Okay. So, we're going to take a break shortly. But this is so vital for you to accept your meditation meditation as perfection. A lot of you did it very, very, very nicely. And then some of you are going to have to work on it. But it's vital that you accept your meditation. I want to talk about a myth. So sometimes we say, well, when I get enlightened, then

1:01:27
everything won't suck anymore. But actually, things probably suck more. It's true. You're more aware, you know, you're sensitive and stuff like that. So then, yeah, things kind of suck. So, so the world doesn't change because you become enlightened. But you change. And you can, you can deal with them in ways where you're still not reactive. And so you're able to deal with the hardships of the world. But the hardships of the world don't go away. And, you know, Buddha set off on this path of enlightenment to end suffering, right? Yeah, you meditate, you end suffering. You follow this path and you end suffering. After enlightenment, there's still suffering. Suffering does not go away and the world does not go away. Right? Yeah, so there's this weird idea that we get that soon as I become enlightened then you know everything's gonna be better which it is but we have this funny idea that the world is gonna all of a sudden be a better kinder place that people are gonna be nicer or or that you know or that you won't have any suffering. Yeah, as soon as I become enlightened, then I won't have any suffering. You absolutely will have suffering. And the world will suck. So there. There. Told you enlightenment's easy. But here's the thing. Here's what it means about Enlightenment is where you resolve those very deep inner complaints in the heart. Things of the self. Where you don't trip yourself up in dealing with the world. You don't get entangled in things because you ended the karma of self. You no longer desire something that's going to cause you suffering, that's going to tilt your mind to the side and have you go into weird states of mind. You no longer fear things that, you know, you shouldn't fear. It tilts your mind in the other way where you go into bad states of mind. You can deal with the hardships of the world and the suffering that everyone experiences in life. You can deal with it in a way where you don't trip yourself up. There will still be, you know, like pain in the world. There'll be suffering that you have from the pain in the world. You know, and the world will suck. There'll be mean people and everything. And bad things will happen. But you won't... the thing that you resolve in liberation is the thing where you trip yourself up and experiencing and experience deeper suffering. The suffering of the self and the spirit. That's the greatest suffering. Dealing with the pain in the world, yeah, it's painful. And then you deal with it as well as you can and sometimes you win, sometimes you lose. But you just deal with it. You don't say, you don't add, you know, some ideas of self that, you know, make you have fear or desire and then make you go sideways. You can deal with everything in the most even way, in a very balanced way. That's what liberation brings. It doesn't bring, it does not bring an end to suffering. It's not gonna be like, oh I'm enlightened and therefore now everything's wonderful. It is. It is and everything's bright and you can see eternity in all things. But at the same time everything sucks. It does. It doesn't change. The world is the way the world is. And you can bring your enlightened attention to an angry person, you know, beeping at you in traffic or something. You can bring enlightenment to them and compassion to them. And probably nothing's going to, they're not going to change the way that they're doing anything. You can be like, you know, beaming, you know, compassion at them. They'll be all like, get out of my way, you idiot. But they stopped in their roots so that they could be compassionate to everyone.

1:12:55
And everyone's like, get the fuck out of the way!

1:13:03
So just because you're enlightened, that you can see infinity and, you know, like, you know, and go into high states of mind and have bright, perfect bodhicitta yeah world's people are going to still be nasty things things will suck but the fact that you have that compassion you'll be happier and then you won't trip yourself up because you're coming from a place of liberation but you will definitely have a problem with the world the world will still be a pain in the ass so it's not like, oh, you'll become enlightened and everything's better.

1:13:39
Not.

1:13:40
In fact, yeah, this is why we have to keep on practicing. Because enlightenment is good. But there's always more in my community. And then you'll have greater balance in dealing with hardship, more insight, more wisdom. Yeah, but definitely don't expect suffering to go away. I know this was all about how to get out of suffering, which it is, the suffering of the self. But don't expect the world to change. with either of these two liberations, samskaras are there. So the samskaras, hopefully you've done battle with them, and you understand them, and you've moved around them. So even after liberation, the samskaras will be there, and you'll just be wise enough not to touch them. So they don't just go away all of a sudden you're like oh that thing that always used to bother me isn't even there anymore. No it's still there. Everything in the universe is still there but you actually see that old pattern and you know that pattern if you put your attention into it you know it'll cause you crazy suffering. You're just not stupid anymore so you don't put your hand in the fire. That's why you have to have a lot of awareness of your samskaras. You have to face them, do battle with them, understand them and go through them. And there's a freedom from that. And then even after liberation, that same samskara is there. It's in your mind. It's a way that consciousness would flow through your mind. And if you direct your mind properly towards karma, it will go around the samskara. So liberation is the wisdom to know not to step into your old karmic pattern. It would be like the stupidest thing to do. You know, that's what Buddha said. A person of wisdom, an enlightened one, would rather drink a tall glass of molten lava than to think a thought of desire. It doesn't mean that desire does not exist in the universe. It's just that the wise person will not go into it. And when you're liberated, angers and desires can come up in your attention, but you just don't grab onto it. It might come up in your mind and then you let it go. You just don't grab onto it. So if you have a desire samskara, it's not that, it's not like the clouds of desire won't pass through your awareness. It's just that you will not be drawn by them. You won't grab onto them. It won't take you to that samskara where you fall into the lava so samskaras are there it's just that with liberation you're wise enough to not touch them. Very important. Okay this is an important point. Enlightenment's great, but everything sucks. It's good to still suck. There you go. Wow, this enlightenment's getting easier and easier. Okay, we're gonna take a enlightenment's getting easier and easier. Okay, we're gonna take a break. 15 minutes, let's say.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
