0:00:00
I think this is okay.

0:00:05
At least we don't have to wait.

0:00:08
I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. Alright everyone, so we made it and we're here after the park hours but the park ranger because he was being really really nice. But this is the thing, more and more that there's

0:00:50
more and more population, more and more people and energy that come down here, there's going to be more limitations. So we've come here for 15 years late at night and never seen a ranger here. It's never been a problem. And now we found a ranger who is really nice Thank you. But the past couple of times that we have been here, over at the Lava Two Step where it is outside of the park, there are people just partying and having a good time. So to go over and sit and meditate there is a little funky. So this place that we always have been able to count on to come in at night is also not something that we have this time here together. So anyway, we're here now and it's good. I'd like to start with meditation. Japa is the next round of the three songs?

0:03:11
Yes. Okay.

0:03:13
We're going to meditate for three songs. So meditate on any chakra. You can do the Kala Chakra, you can do the heart or the third eye, or you can just be still. But let's all meditate. We're going to meditate together. So sit up nice and straight and we're gonna sit for three songs. Let's begin.

0:03:50
I'm going to get you out of here. So so So So So Okay. So So So So So so Very nice. So I'm going to start with the transmission from last night.

0:17:24
And maybe you come and you think thoughts and stress out and whatever. It's okay. It doesn't have to happen tonight. But last night I did two transmissions and tonight I'm doing a third. There's a pattern where it's clear. It's not ambiguous. So this is hitting you over the head with enlightenment. And you know, sitting out here, tomorrow and the next day and the next day and up until the solstice, this is the time of the transit. So tonight doesn't matter. These are just the transmissions that give you the door, the initiation, the way. And I would recommend that you meditate deeply, you come to places of power, you have, or you know, you're in North Kona and you go to the beach, you're in South Kona and you And you draw upon these dimensions from this transmission. Because from now until the solstice, there's a powerful window of enlightened energy. So it doesn't have to be that you become enlightened tonight. But it's possible to become enlightened from this transmission. So I'm going to do the transmission again. So I want you to feel the energy and the power of the transmission. Because I want you to, not that you have to become enlightened tonight, but I'd like you to take your time when you're on your own to really deeply reflect on it and meditate. Because with this transmission you can become enlightened. Several people last night became enlightened. It's not a stretch of the imagination, it's a reality. It's very true. So it's not something that is like impossible. It's something very possible. So we're going to sit, going to get the transmission, and really, really feel it, understand it. And if you want, use it. But you can also accept it, understand it, and until the solstice, work on that teaching, work on that koan. So this is something that's very, very beautiful, powerful, real. And we are going to sit in this transmission for how many songs, Java? Oh, three songs. Okay. Three songs. Okay. So sit up nice and straight. Either soft focus on the third eye or just still your mind. And I'm going to give this transmission that I gave twice yesterday. I'm going to give the transmission again today. It's a very, very, very pure, pure, beautiful, clear energy. And it not only opens the door to enlightenment, but it actually lifts you through that door. So it is an enlightenment if you accept it. So set your faces straight

0:22:13
So, So the So so so so so I'm going to go ahead and get the camera. So, Thank you. Thank you. the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get the camera. So Perfect. We all got dumped on. But it was beautiful. The rain comes down and washes washes away things. It gets you to wash away certain thoughts and then just be dumped on them. It's good. It's beautiful.

0:33:39
So, I'd like to talk about the solstice experience alone. So I'm going to be in Hungary and I'm going to be doing a 5 a.m. solstice there which will be a 5 p.m. solstice here. It's something that you could attend but I would say no, don't attend my solstice. I'll give some solstice teaching, you know, like I always do, you know, same old thing. But I want you to have a solstice alone because these transmissions of enlightenment, they are for last night and they're for tonight And therefore tomorrow, there's a very powerful doorway to enlightenment up until the solstice. Enlightenment can happen after the solstice too. But I'd like you to go for it, to meditate deeply up until the solstice. And especially at the time of the solstice. So on the day of the solstice, at the time of the solstice, I would like you to have a buddy. It could be one buddy or it could be a couple of buddies. It could be a group of four people, but not three or not five. Nothing over four. It could be two or four. You guys can drive to a place in a bigger group, but then you should be separate in a group of two or four. And I would like you to sit together, meditate together. I would like you to be together and share the solstice. It doesn't have to be the best highest person. It doesn't have to be the most enlightened buddy. Anybody. Any half buddy. Wed buddy. Somebody. Anybody. And just I'd like you to go to your place of connection. A place that you really like. A place where you would like to have your enlightenment. It might be here. It might be Mauna Kea.

0:39:07
It might be

0:39:09
anywhere.

0:39:11
Anywhere on the island. Or if you're going back to California, please go to Shasta. Do it in Shasta. But if you are on the island, there are a lot of places of power that you like. Wherever you want to go, go there. If you are in California, go to Shasta. Shasta is such a magical place. Please go there, it is magically powerful. If you are here you can choose where you want to go. But there is something that I want you to do together. What I would like you to do together is, if you are with a buddy, I want you to show two dimensions to you. So I'm going to show the two dimensions to you. I'm going to say this. You know how I'm magical? Like I can do magical things, mystical things on all our desert trips and stuff? When I met Rama, I wasn't magical. He was the magical guy and yet somehow I learned it. Somehow it transferred to me. So it also transfers to you. After all the spiritual teachings you have been through, all the power trips, all these The magic transfers to you. So I'm going to do two dimensions. But I want you to watch me open because I'm drawing it out of you. It's very important as a mystical Buddhist for you to see that you also have these mystical magical powers. And the first one is going to be this wall behind me. This is a temple built by the Manihuni, or Hawaiians. And what we are going to do is we are going to sit for just about a minute gazing at this wall behind me. Something you guys have done very many times. But when you do this gazing, I am also transferring to you the power of gazing. Which is that you can draw someone's attention to a mountain and it can become magical, illuminated, So we are going to sit for a minute looking at the mountain behind me, even if it is raining. And let's start it, let's begin I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. Okay, very good. to do tonight and then we're calling it off but one more to do and this is a dimension Well, I'd like you all just to look at me for 30 seconds, 45 seconds, until I get washed away. to be able to connect to. So just look up here to me.

0:45:32
I'm going to go ahead and get my camera. Alright, very very good. The rain is so beautiful! It's still raining.

0:48:01
But, hey, the rain is so wonderful. Yeah, of course. Alright, so, the rain is good! It's just the rain. And we did the transmission, which is very important. And also these two transmissions, the wall and me very important, oh by the way, where is my speaker? Am I going to lose electricity? Hello can you hear me? So these two transmissions of looking at the wall and looking at me are extremely important because on the solstice with your buddy each of you has to connect to those dimensions each of you has to point to a mountain a place of power that you can see from the place of power that you are sitting and you say, ok, we are going to focus on that mountain, that bridge, that ocean, something that you find as a place of power and you have to open the dimension that I just opened here and it's raining! And it's not the easiest thing! But you can do it and then you have to say, now look at me for a minute or two. So you have to open the dimensions of opening the dimensions of a place and also showing the dimensions of enlightenment through you. classic and mega powerful enlightened mystical teachings. You have to see that the same enlightened teachings that you see in me are in you and they are in you. You can do them. And it's something emporium you know like you know but you're magical and when I met Rama I'm like well you're magical but look at the magic I got now guys dumping on me the speakers like oh should I die now and yet we're here And even in this rain, there is a power, a power of these transmissions. These are powerful enlightened mystical transmissions. These are the transmissions of the mystical teachings of enlightenment. Now it is very important that when you do these teachings, you are doing it with your buddy, your enlightenment buddy, and you are not doing it to show off, you are not doing it in any egotistical way, you can never do these teachings in a, let me show you my power, that is horrible, it will trap you in such a horrible karmic way and cut you off from enlightenment, but if you do it in a way where you say, I am not a powerful person, but look, I can make that mountain disappear. And then you go, wow, that's amazing. That's amazing. Or look at me, I meditate, I go to the same dimension that Samaritan just showed me, and then I disappear, or I become a big lake. important for us to do that. Do that with your buddy on the soul trip. It's so important to do that. And then do it and then hear what your buddy's experience was. And then your buddy will do it for you and then you tell your buddy your experience. Even if it's not You guys are powerful seers so share with each other. But these dimensions of power are very important. They open up another doorway of magic within you. And you have to do it on the solstice and you have to do it for your buddy. And your buddy has to tell you what they saw, what their awareness was. This is something extremely empowering for you. But this is something you can never take advantage of and you can never do it out of egotism. But you can always do it for the Dharma. This solstice, you can do it with your friend, with your buddy, as an exercise of seeing the power of enlightenment, this distance within you. So this is a very very very important thing. Whether you become, whether you are liberated before then or not. This is so important. So do this correctly. And I got probably lots of other things to say but this is the most important thing. The transmission of enlightenment, that was the first rain. And then these two transmissions of enlightened mysticism, and that was the second rain, which never stopped. which never stops. So now we're just going to walk into the ocean. Alright, but anyway, thank you all so much. It was really wonderful. And you know, on our walk out, you know, feel the rain. Because the rain is beautiful. I mean, it gets in the way. But it's also very beautiful. So thank you all so much. Be well. And I've got more teachings. But this is good for now. Because it's really watery. And for all of you who came from the mainland, thank you very much. But follow these teachings. The transmission, meditate and reach for enlightenment it can happen, it's happening it's happened and it's happening and develop yourself so that on the solstice that you can do this buddhist magic you're full of it, oh my god you're so full of it alright everyone, thank you so much. Have a good night. Let's have a safe, dry way home. Aloha and mahalo. I'll be here until Thursday. Did they bring a bag? I just saw the police running through there too.

0:56:09
It's interesting.

0:56:10
People were partying there.

0:56:26
So like half an hour or something like that.

0:56:28
She's took his. I should say. I should say. Oh, thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
