0:00:00
Hello everyone. Welcome to Satsang. We're going to begin with meditation. We will meditate for one song on the heart chakra. Okay, so sit up nice and straight. And let's begin.

0:00:18
the the the the the the You so so so the the the the so Okay, so today I'd like to talk about freedom from addiction and bad habits.

0:04:34
Addiction and bad habits create tremendous painful states of mind. In addiction, with having bad habits, you don't look at life in a clear way anymore. You look at life in a veiled way, a false way. And the addictions and bad habits, it changes your world and you don't perceive the luminosity and wonder of life. It also limits your consciousness in general. You see fewer options for happiness or possibilities of success. So it's one of the biggest things that adds to human suffering. Now, enlightenment is freedom from addiction and bad habits. Enlightenment is a way of awareness that reflects the truth of nature and reality perfectly. So it's unmarred by the entanglements of addictions and bad behaviors. Addictions are things that you're you know, attached to. And it tries to hold something where everything should be flowing, enlightenment flows. And bad habits are cycles of attention that draw your consciousness enlightenment is open. So it's a completely open state and so there could be no cycle drawing in consciousness. Enlightenment is always open. So spiritual realization always leads to the end of addiction, the end of bad habits, both in physical reality and in mental states. Now, a long time ago, I knew a Native American guy working in a bad neighborhood where he was helping out the poor and the elderly. And he worked, you know, really seven days a week. He was very committed to his work. And he had had a really, really tough time in his early 20s, maybe late teens, got into, you know, like became a heroin addict. And he was just, you know, unable to keep a job. His life was just terrible. And he lived at home. His parents were trying to get him off drugs, but they couldn't. And then one day, his father talked to the elders of the tribe and said, is there some way we can help? And then they said, okay, let's talk to the medicine man. So there was this medicine man, and he said, yes, I can help him. Bring him to me. So, they went up, you know, so the father and his brother found him just totally like, you know, strung out, and they picked him up, put him in the truck, drove him out to the medicine man, then they drove way, way, way, way far out into the mountains, and then they picked him up and put him down in the right spot. And so, the medicine man stayed there with him. And then the father and son went away and they were to come back in a week. So eventually he comes to and he's like, hey, well, where am I? And then the medicine man says, you are on a healing. And this is a special sacred healing. He's very frustrated. At first, he's like, I'm going to get out of here. He says, no, we are miles and miles away. You'll get lost just walking around. Miles and miles away from civilization. You might as well stay here with me for the week and then eventually the family will come back. So he's like, oh great. So he's like that. And then, so they're sitting in this forest, but they're sitting in front of this big rock. So the medicine man says, you must look at the rock. And he looks at the rock and he's like, yeah, it's a rock. And he says, no, no, no, just continue to look at the rock. And he's like, yeah, right. So he's just not doing it, looking around, seeing if there's some way out, you know, just having a hard time. And then it comes to night and he falls asleep. The next morning, the medicine man says, look at So he's just bored. So now he's given up on trying to escape somehow. And so he's just sitting around and the medicine man keeps saying, look at the rock. So finally he does, you know, halfway through the day, he starts looking at the rock. Because there's nothing else to do. And then he's looking at the rock. Nothing happens. Next day in the morning, look at the rock. He's like, oh gosh. Then he starts getting antsy because he wants to get another fix. But the medicine man says, look at the rock. So he's got nothing better to do, so he looks at the rock. Next day, he's really antsy, and the medicine man says, look at the rock. He's feeling okay. And he, you know, so he's feeling a little bit more peaceful. So then, you know, it gets a little bit better, a little bit better. And then on the last day, he said that he had this amazing experience where he was just looking at the rock, didn't feel bad, didn't feel good, and then all of a sudden he felt that I think like the heart, like his heart and the rock were merged, like the rock was his heart, and it was like this beautiful like realization for him. And then coming out of that experience, he never, ever had a, he was sober ever since then, and never had an interest in drugs or alcohol. So, whenever then you start to let go of addiction and bad habits. Addictions and bad habits are always painful. They always create pain. A worse situation, it always creates suffering. So, even if you're a junkie and you get your fix and you feel okay for a while, you know, you're like, oh, I feel great. But actually, your life is going down. So whenever you're engaging in addiction or bad habit, your whole life, your personal power, your consciousness and your awareness is going down. So there was this man, and his favorite thing in the world was a maple-dipped glazed donut. So he gets one, and he's like,

0:13:46
yes, I got my favorite thing.

0:13:48
He's driving on the Pacific Coast Highway, right next to the Pacific Ocean, and he's driving, but he's got this addiction to speed. So he drives really fast, going like 100 miles an hour. And he's like, yeah! And he's like, I got my donut. I'm driving real fast. Everything's awesome. And he hits a bump. Now, if he were going slower, he could have just gone over it easily. But he hits this bump, and it jolts the donut out of hand. The donut flies out of the window. It goes all the way down to the Pacific Ocean, and this fish jumps out of the water and swallows it whole. And he's going, oh my gosh, my donut. And while he does that, he crashes into a cop car, breaks his leg, and gets arrested.

0:14:50
So the moral of the story is,

0:14:52
no more eating your donut before you go drive. No, no, that's not it. The moral of the story is, if you don't speed, if you don't have that addiction to that rush or something, then you don't lose your donut. Yeah, you know what a very important addiction or bad behavior that meditators need to be careful of? It's social media. There's so many people who spend so much time and attention on social media that they're not in the present moment and they're not in their own mind. And so many people are always going, oh, let me check my Facebook, let me check my Instagram. They're constantly taking their attention and going off somewhere else. So social media for a meditator, for someone who practices mindfulness, it is diverting your attention from here and now. So you have to be very careful about how you use social media. It's something that is, you know, Buddha didn't talk about it because he didn't have it. But it's something that really, really draws your attention off. So social media is something that just diverts attention. You know, you could be focusing on something more productive, something more constructive than what Debbie had for dinner last night. It's something that, it's like, you don't need to know that. You know, it just diverts attention. You know, so there was this 19-year-old girl. She was addicted to social media. It got so bad she had to go to the hospital. Now she's being tweeted by a doctor. You know, I saw a study where they were studying the effects of social media on people. And they found that people, the more that they engaged in social media, the more unhappy they were. Because they're sitting there going, hey, look at all my friends, and they see their Facebook page, all I see is their smiling, their dinner from last night, or whatever, all the best things about them. And you go, wow, their life is great, mine's horrible. So let me put up some really happy pictures of me, so that they can look at it and think my life's great, and then they feel horrible. Because they might say, here's our Hawaii vacation, where here's me, the wife, and the kids, and all these great pictures. But it could have been that that was an extremely stressful, difficult, and unhappy vacation. They just show the highlights. So everything that people are showing in social media, it is a snapshot of reality. And it's just a small little thing. It's not the big picture, but it's promoting a certain idea. And so, if you look at social media a lot, you tend to get depressed. It makes you sad, and it's completely unproductive. You know, unless you're doing it as a business. If you're doing it as a business, then you're using a tool for something more constructive and powerful. And then I would say, you know, you better be making money, not just doing it as a hobby for business. There's so many young people who want to be social influencers. You can ask, probably in your average high school, probably half of them are like, yeah, when I grow up, I'm gonna be a social influencer. That's kind of how it used to be with people saying, oh yeah, when I grow up, I'm gonna be a movie star. It's like, it's possible, it's unlikely. You'd be one in a million or maybe one in ten million Yeah, probably one in ten million maybe a one in a hundred million, I'm sorry it's like the odds aren't aren't with you So, you know putting a lot of energy into that it's maybe not a good idea When I was in Paris I was in the airport about to fly to Iceland, and I ran into this guy. I got there really early, we were just waiting around for the flight, we started talking. He was this young American guy who moved to Paris, and his job was social influencer. And I said, wow, what do you do? And he says, all right, well, you know, that part of my thing is, part of my shtick is that I'm, you know, American in Paris. And I'm like, I'm trying to influence people about all sorts of things. And I talk about Paris and stuff like that. And I said, no, sounds interesting. And I said, wow, so that's your full-time job? And he said, yeah. I said, wow, how's it, like, you can make a living on that? He's all, well, he's like, I make, you know, like a few hundred dollars a month. And I said, oh, I thought you were gonna say day, a month. And he said, how can you survive in Paris on that? He's all, well, you know, I ran out of money. I'm in a lot of credit card debt, and I'm going to visit my dad to ask him for money. So, so I said, how long have you been doing this? Three years. And he said, maybe you should try something different. And he said, like what? And I started telling him about computer programming. So then we looked up some French boot camp. And he's like, yeah, okay. And I told him about our group and how we all are, people come from all sorts of different backgrounds and become successful computer programmers. So he got inspired by that. And then I said, yeah, because, you know, what's the difference between a park bench can support a family of four. It's like stolen from like an artist or a musician. Okay, anyway, so you know bad behaviors really affect our relationships. So when we have addictions to anything, could be a physical thing or could be a mental thing, where your mind goes, then you're drawing your attention in a way that's bad and it unbalances the positive relationships that you have. So obviously when someone's addicted to drugs or something like that, they have a strain in their family. So it creates a lot of problems. When you have bad habits, it annoys people that you're in relationships with. So it's very important to recognize that when somebody who loves you starts to get out of balance because of your addiction or your bad habits, that's a very important sign that you're doing something that's really, really wrong. So, there was this husband and wife, they were on a cruise, and the husband smoked. And the wife was always bothered by him smoking. She kept trying to get him to quit, but he wouldn't. Anyway, one day, he was out on the balcony, and smoking a cigarette, and the ashes fell down on his wedding ring. And he was like, oh, there's a little smudge. So he took his ring off to clean it off and dropped it into the ocean. And he was like, oh my gosh. And he comes in and he says, honey, I dropped my wedding ring. I know you're going to be really upset. And then she had been studying Buddhist compassion. So she went mindfully, okay, process it, okay, have compassion. She was really upset, so she had to take a moment of mindful reflection. And then she came back to him and said, okay, I forgive you, honey. And he was like, wow, you do? And he was grateful. And he was so grateful, he decided right then and there to quit smoking. So he quit smoking and never had a cigarette again. And to celebrate him quitting smoking, he said, let's go out to the fine dining restaurant. So they went to the fine dining restaurant on the cruise ship, and they ordered a really fabulous dinner and kind of the center of the dinner was this big whole fish. So then he cut open the fish and then guess what he found in the belly? A maple-dipped glazed duck. So, yeah. Now, yeah, relationships are very important. There's, you know, a lot of people in relationships find themselves attached. Attachment is addiction. And when you're attached, if everything's going okay, you don't notice too much, but you definitely will see places that are very bad, but someone's attached, they're addicted to that relationship. So like, for example, if a woman is in a relationship where a man beats her, that's a bad relationship.

0:26:30
But she'll say,

0:26:31
oh, I don't want to leave him because I love him. I would say that's not love, that's attachment.

0:26:37
That's what attachment is.

0:26:39
It's something that doesn't serve the dharma. Love serves the dharma. If you love that person, you would leave them and not let them create bad karma for themselves. It's just that when you're attached to that person, then you think you want to help them, you want to figure them out, you want to solve it, or you can be better and not get beat, or he'll change, or something like that. So, when you're in a relationship that hurts you, that is not the dharma. That's not the pathway to enlightenment. That is, if you're suffering, you're being hurt in a relationship that diminishes your consciousness and your personal power. So, you got to see where you have attachments and let go. And that's freedom from addiction. Bad habits are like hanging around the wrong people. So if you hang around the bad crowd, you start to do the bad things. If you hang around a bunch of people who do drugs, you'll probably do a little drugs. Maybe get hooked. Become one of the people who do drugs. If you hang around a bunch of health nuts, fitness people, then you'll probably get fit and eat right. They will. If you just hang around them, they'll start to say, oh, did you know this is important? You'll say, oh, I didn't know that. Sounds good. And this is why it's really good to hang around sangha. Sangha is a group of spiritually minded people. People who talk about meditation and mindfulness, of finding freedom from suffering,

0:28:33
inner peace.

0:28:33
It's a beautiful organic network, a fellowship of people seeking truth. And Sangha is a very powerful group, and when you're hanging around Sangha, you start to say, oh, maybe I'll meditate more, maybe I'll practice mindfulness more, maybe I'll do yoga more. And as you do these things, you see that you get more clarity of mind, more peace in your being. But you gotta be in the Sangha. You can't be outside of the Sangha, just watching. You gotta participate, you gotta be in the Sangha. Let me tell you another story. So there was this businessman, very busy, very busy, and then someday he says, oh, I gotta get to inner peace. So he flies to Tibet, and he goes around, you know, to the monasteries and learns some Buddhist stuff. He goes to this one monastery, and when he's there, he hears this beautiful sound, and it's just everywhere. And he goes over to the, this monastery just had llamas. And he goes over to the head llama and says, what is that beautiful sound? It makes me feel so good. And the llama says, oh, that? I can't tell you, because you're not a llama. And then he's like, oh, okay, that's cool. I understand, respect. And then he says, so he stays there for a while, keeps visiting the place, loves that sound, goes back to America, is very busy, but he can't stop thinking about that sound and how it brought him so much peace. So he goes back to Tibet, back to that monastery, and that sound? And then the head llama says, I'm sorry, I can't tell you. You're not a llama. And then he goes, OK. He goes back to America, and then he spends about another year in America. But he's obsessed with that song. So he's like, you know what? Forget it. I'm leaving. I'm quitting business, I'm becoming a monk, I'm going for it. So he quits, becomes a monk. And then he's like, now you can tell me what the sound is? Sorry, I can't tell you, you're not a Lama. You have to spend three years of training before you become a Lama. So he's like, oh my gosh. So he spends three years training, meditating, learning, and yet that sound is always very so happy. And then finally they say, poof, you're a llama. And then he goes and he immediately says, okay what does that sound? And they said, come here, we'll show you. So they go to this sacred little inner temple and they open the door and he sees it and it is filled with bliss and joy. And you know what he sees? I'm sorry I can't tell you because you're not a llama. So you gotta be in with the sangha to know the answer.

0:32:26
Okay.

0:32:27
Yeah.

0:32:28
Let's see. You know, another big one, especially in America, is imbalance with diet. A lot of people eat too much, eat really unhealthy foods, or they stress eat. They have a lot of problems with food in America. Americans are like caterpillars. They wanna stuff themselves, eat as much as they can, take a nap, and then wake up looking beautiful. It just doesn't work that way. So it's very important because Americans also really struggle with this. They struggle with diet. They're like, oh man, I would do anything to lose weight, except for eat healthy crap and exercise. I would do anything but that. And they struggle, but they don't get things clear. So you gotta get real about it. There's this great teacher, Yuan Yao, great Buddhist teacher, and she had this student who was obese and He would come to her and she would always say to him, you need to lose weight. And he's like, yes, yes master I will. And then he'd come back a month later and Gotta lose weight. Oh, yeah, I'm sure I'm gonna do it. You know, I want to I really want to but never did. Then one day he sprained his knee and he came to her for healing. So she's a healing master. So she did the medicine Buddha and then she touched his knee and then all of the pain was gone. And so I was like, wow, that's cool. So I met him and he told me this story. And when I met him, he looked very healthy. I said, oh, wow, what's the thing about you being fat? Well, after she healed the knee, she said, now with my healing powers, I can also see that you're going to die in six months of a massive heart attack, unless you lose the weight. And he was like, whoa, and he believed her because all of a sudden he saw his knee get better. And then in six weeks, he was no longer obese. He exercised and ate healthy foods. So you have to sometimes have that wake-up call. And it's especially important with smoking, alcohol, and drugs. You have to really realize that these things are bad for you. They cause death. And, you know, like it happened for Elton John, right? He was like doing heavy Coke for like 16 years. And then, you know, one day he hit rock bottom and he, he came to this realization. And he said, if I keep doing drugs, I'm going to die. If I stop doing drugs, I'm going to live. And that's the turnaround point for him. He realized that. That woke him up. And then since then, he's been 30 years sober. Or then there's Chris Herron. of big NBA basketball fans, in Boston, Boston Celtics. He's one of the great players. He was hooked on Oxy, and then he got full on into heroin. And it was hard for him to quit, but then he had a wake up call. And the wake up call was he overdosed, and they had to revive him. He almost died. And then he said, okay, no more. That was his wake-up call. He had to see that happen. And then when he saw that happen, he said, okay, I can't do it anymore, and I also have to work to help educate children. So he created the HERON Project, which has an educational system for children about how not to get into drugs and also has scholarships. So he turned the other way. Also, I remember my teacher was giving this teaching and there was new students and some of them were smokers. So he said, he said, every time you take a puff, you are telling yourself, I want to die. And they were like, whoa, really? Because I thought I was just smoking a cigarette. But he's like, no, you have to realize that this is something that, you know, definitely is bad for you. Then he gave the transmission, and then that night they all quit smoking. So it was very powerful. Now ultimately, we all have an addiction. It is the addiction to self. It is what they call ego clinging. That's the ultimate addiction. And enlightenment is the ultimate solution. It is letting go of that ego and being free. So I'm going to do the transmission. And the transmission is the transmission of letting go of addiction and bad habits. It's about letting go of addictions that are in the physical or addictions of the mind. It's bad habits of thought, bad habits of letting bad feelings run around in your It is the freedom from that. Through meditation, through mindfulness, through yoga, these are all ways of letting go. But this is the essential spiritual teaching of letting go. This is a transmission, a direct spiritual experience. It doesn't have any words, it's just a teaching in silence. So if you would, sit up nice and straight and look up here towards me and let's begin.

0:39:55
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Thank you. the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the the Thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
