0:00:00
All right.

0:00:03
Hello.

0:00:04
I wanted to show you guys something. Buddha. I got a present. It's a Buddha. I like Buddha, but check out this part. I was all like, oh, it's a Buddha. And then it's the other side. I like that. I'm all like, oh, what a great gift.

0:00:32
It's perfect.

0:00:34
Okay, anyway. This was the last California Satsang. Because tomorrow I'm flying to Hawaii. And then on Monday we'll have the Ananda Aina kickoff, so that's hot fun. And then there will be, oh Tuesday, sorry. And then there will be, you know, the rest of the teachings from the Buddha Dojo will be, you know, from there. Yay! Exciting. Let's Um, let's see. Very important. Let's not screw this up. Okay. So, when we moved to Bodie Woods, we screwed it up. We were like, there's just this forest, and we're going into the forest and doing whatever we want. But the forest had neighbors and and even though it just looked like a forest to us, they knew every inch of the forest. So then when we do something, they notice it and then they get mad. They're like, what? Why are they making little houses up there? We're like, what? They're just little houses in the middle of the forest. They're like, I can see it, I don't like it. And so then Then our neighbors called the county on us, we got red-tagged, and we had to go through this whole, you know, Marpa thing of unbuilding what we built, rebuilding, you know, doing all this stuff, because we didn't do things in a good way. Eventually we came to a place of peace, right? We had to move cabins where they couldn't see them once we understood what was going on. And then now everything's cool. But let's go to Hawaii and not mess it up. So first of all, let me tell you something about Hawaii. Hawaii is very territorial. They're very friendly if you do things right, but upset. So it's very important that we're good neighbors. And we have to, you know, have a certain etiquette and a certain way of being so that we are good neighbors, so that we don't upset our neighbors. One of the things we were looking at in the land, you know, I asked the land we are also, you know, he knows we're a Buddhist community. And I said, we have, you know, a nonprofit that's a church. Can we build things? Is it easier to. It never raised the spiritual cause because that is full.

0:03:32
If you're gonna build something,

0:03:35
if you're gonna build a church or a spiritual retreat or something like that, then the kahuna,

0:03:41
you don't want the kahuna to get mad at you

0:03:44
because they can raise all the Hawaiians to go and complain about you to the county. And if they complain, if the kahunas are complaining, then the county is going to act against you. So we want to have good etiquette, and that means to be inaccessible, you know, which means that we, what we're doing that's magical, like making our barn a meditation hall, that's something we have to keep in our hearts and not tell everybody in the world. We're like, we built a meditation hall. And if people hear that, they'll go, they built a meditation hall. And then go, oh, Kahuna's, did you hear about that meditation hall? Hey, neighbors, did you hear about that meditation hall? And people will be like, we don't want no meditation hall. That's just blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, right? If it's a barn, nobody cares. Nobody cares if there's a barn. Everyone will get riled up if it's a meditation hall. So that's what I mean by inaccessible. We're going to build a big barn. We're going to use it as a meditation hall. But for the world, it's a barn, right? This is just like, you know, superheroes. It's like, you're wearing your glasses, and you're Clark Kent, and you take them off, and you're Superman, right? But you got to have the glasses on, you know, present a certain way for the world. Everyone's all like, oh my god, he took his glasses off, it's enough Superman. Right? So, no, but this is really important. We can't go around saying we're a spiritual community and we can't say we built a meditation hall. If we do that, we might as well just give up. Then there will not be a meditation hall, it will be a barn because the county will close us down. The county will say you can't do this and then we'll say huh what? Because you can't. So Hawaiians are very territorial. Hawaiians don't like... So if you go... People like Buddhists, but they don't like Buddhist groups. Where are... We like a Buddhist group. Where are you? And then they start getting into the territory. What do your neighbors think of that? Did you tell the kahuna? You know, so it'll be difficult. So don't go around saying we're a Buddhist group. We're just people. We're just people. Hey, I'm a person. We're a farm. So yeah, don't go around saying we're a Buddhist group or a spiritual group at all. We're not looking to teach the locals Buddhism. They can find us online. This is not, Ananda Ina is gonna be for existing students only.

0:07:28
It's not gonna be, hey, I met this guy in Kailua,

0:07:31
a surf shop, and he likes meditation. Can I bring him to the meditation at Ananda Ina? No, and don't even tell him about Ananda Ina. You can tell him, yeah, I'm Buddhist and I meditate, but don't tell people about our organization, our land, and our meditation barn, or we can lose it. You can really upset people. So we're not, but we have to be inaccessible. It's very important. Now, I've got some good news. So remember that last time I was like, you know, we wanted to subdivide and build all these houses. And then now we found out because of all those reasons, we can't subdivide and we're all, oh. And then now we found out something cool. In looking to build our barn, we found out the rules about barns. If you want a barn that is greater than a thousand square feet, you have to get a permit. So we're going to go through the permit process. But if you want a barn that is not larger than a thousand square feet, you don't need a permit. You can build it, no problem. And there's no limit to how many you can build on your land. So in Bodie Woods, the Santa Cruz County rules are you can build as many barns as you want, as long as they don't exceed 110 square feet and they're not 12 feet tall. And here, you get a thousand square feet, and they don't care how tall it is, apparently. Maybe they do. But this is a really, really great thing. They're like, hey, it's agriculture land. You need a barn, as long as it's for an agricultural reason, no problem. Another great thing about Ananda Aina is that in our agricultural zone, we can do a lot of excavation work with tractors, where we don't have to get a permit, you only have to get a permit if you're going to move a ton like I forgot how many tons of dirt or a complete acre. And that's when you have to get a permit. But otherwise, we could make roads, parking areas, and terraces, and we don't even need to get a permit. So that's a really good thing. That's going to help us a lot. So there's a lot of things that we can do on the land without getting permits, including building barns. So the cool thing that we can do with a barn, which we have to be inaccessible about, is build a nice thousand square foot barn that looks like a barn, but someone could live there. So a barn can have a bathroom and electricity. It can't have a kitchen, but you can always, you know, have a toaster oven, a microwave oven, and a hot plate, because those are just plug and play. But this is a really, really wonderful thing. It's even better than the houses, because subdivision takes six to eight months, getting the permits to build takes six to eight months, and then you have to build, and then all of them have to be, like, together. But this would be like, hey, you know, we could make 30 barns just around, you know, you can have, like, more privacy and all sorts of things. And then you have your barn on the land. Barn again! Barn again, Christian. Barn again, Buddhist. And so, this is a really good thing. It's a super, super, super, super happy thing. So, for the 30 people who are in new construction, we might do barns. And there were also people we were going to do, you know, cabbage on wheels, we might do barns. So, you know, we got to figure things out. Now, whether if you have a barn, we still have an obligation. So you can have any barn, but it has to have an agricultural use. So if someone says, hey, we have a meditation hall and then the Kahuna's find out and the neighbors find out and the county comes in then We have to convert your place to a barn. So we have to be able to go from your apartment to your barn So, you know, but this is you know, this is the way that we have to do things to see if it It works out. Now, Dakini came up with a cool plan. So why would we have 30 barns, right? Now, Dakini has a master's degree in farming, in flowers or something, right? Horticulture. And she's studied this thing called biometric? Biodynamic. Biodynamic farming, which is this weird farming thing that has to do with the moon and stuff in Europe and we're going to do a new tropical thing and so we're going to do it here in Hawaii and we're going to like be experimenting on all these different things and trying all these different things and we need barns for different temperatures to have different spices and stuff. And like this whole like, so she's coming up with this whole plan of why we would need to have a bunch of barns. And actually a real farming plan of what we're going to do. And so we're really going to make it a big farm because we're gonna grow avocados and mangoes, papayas and all that stuff. Because if we grow all that stuff, we can have a barn for it. And then the barn could be where someone lives. And then also we're gonna be on a farm. We're gonna be farming, or at least have a farm.

0:14:20
We're gonna have stuff growing.

0:14:20
I don't know if we're gonna like harvest it, but you're like, it's just like, wake up in the morning, open your window from the barn,

0:14:29
eat a papaya.

0:14:30
You know?

0:14:31
So it's gonna be, it's gonna be awesome. Anyway, so Daikini is gonna make this a complete, like, really robust, unimpeachable farming

0:14:45
farm.

0:14:48
And it's going to be a plan to have cabins, I mean, barns for specific use. And it'll be like we'll detail out what the barn is for, why we need the barn for a certain area. We're just going to have a total plan. We're going to print it out and we're going to just like, you know, anyone who asks, this is what we're doing, you want to know about what we're doing? You want to know all about what we're doing? Here's what we're doing." And then they go, oh wow, you guys are, you got a lot of barns, you guys are like, doing all this weird stuff, but I guess that's, you know, makes sense. So we're gonna, you know, so, so the key is the, the tonal of, you know, farm design, where we're going to make a farm story, which is going to be our glasses. And that's the way that we are inaccessible. It's that we're doing spiritual stuff, but we're showing everybody else normal stuff. We have our meditation barn, right? We have a barn, we meditate there. It's our meditation hall. We become enlightened there. But to the rest of our neighbors and the kahunas and the island, it's just a barn. It's a barn on a farm. So, very important. We have to be inaccessible. We have to have a story that makes sense to people. And we have to, that has to be what Whatever we do in our hearts or in our barns, you know, is what we do. But the world has to see a barn and an agricultural plan and people who are just farmers. So this this time we're going to make friends with our neighbors. So we're going to go in with a story about a Hungarian family business that is already, you know, doing stuff in Europe. We're going to make websites so that people can see that we're legit. Wow, you have a website and everything for your farm. And we're going to talk about how we make jams and stuff. What else do we make?

0:17:13
Syrup.

0:17:14
Syrup.

0:17:15
And dried fruits.

0:17:16
Dried fruits.

0:17:17
No, peanut.

0:17:18
Ginger.

0:17:19
Walnut.

0:17:20
There's a lot of things.

0:17:21
And a food truck.

0:17:22
And a food truck.

0:17:23
And a food truck.

0:17:24
Yeah, so we're going to be doing like all sorts of things, and we're going to make these plans, and then we're going to like share them with everybody and everybody will know our story. We're like, hey neighbor, we're gonna do this and this and this and we have to we're gonna actually have to introduce a bunch of people. So we're gonna be like, yeah, it's a family business and it's like, you know, two brothers, two sisters and their husbands and wives. We live next door and we're building a bunch of barns and we're going to farm. Anyway, but we, we actually want to meet our neighbors, give them our story, be friendly with them, and then and then actually like try to be extra, extra positive and make friends with them. So one of our neighbors has an excavation company and we, and we need tractor work done, you know, for flattening out areas where we're going to build barns and stuff like that. And also we might have to do a lot of clearing to do our farming. So we will, we will, like, like how we used John at Bodie Woods, he became a great friend of ours, and he worked with us and he's like, yeah, you guys are really good people. The rest of the neighbors hate our guts. So, so this is, this is what we're going to do. We're going to make friends with our neighbors. One of our neighbors is a coffee farm, and so that's where we're going to get our coffee. And things like that. So, and then we're going to find out what the rest of our neighbors do and give them presents and make friends with them. So we're going to have friendly connections, and then we're going to show our neighbors barns and farms. And then our neighbors will be like, we see what's going on. It's a barn. It's a farm. And that's what we like around these parts. We don't like Buddhists. We don't like some spiritual people around. We don't need any of that. So it's very important, though. Don't go around, don't become accessible, because you can ruin it with becoming accessible. James, the land use consultant, was telling us about this one spiritual community, like, I don't know, Buddhist or something. And they were just all, hey, we bought this 20 acres of land. And they're all, yay, Hawaii. And then we built this like 18 bedroom house with a big meditation room. And then they're all, yay. And then they move in. And then the neighbors go, why are there so many people there? And then they just say, they're not using, there's something not right going on. So then the neighbors complained to the county and then the county came in and said, what's going on here? Oh wait, your zone here says that one family, one nuclear family, could live on this property. You've got 18 random people. So the county said, you can only have four people live here. And then they're all like, oh, you ruined our little special thing. So it's the same on our land. There's this rule in Hawaii, on a piece of land, unless there's some special use or something, one nuclear family can live on the property. So, you know, that's why we're saying we're a family business. And we're gonna say, we've got some brothers and sisters and husbands and wives and Scotty dogs.

0:21:23
Wild Scotty's.

0:21:24
So, cause that's the story, but you know, if it goes wrong and the county comes after you, they can really make things difficult. So, must be inaccessible. Barnes, glasses. Okay, that's all I want to say. So, cheers, and, um, oh, Tales of Power, thank you. Um, I would, I'd like you all to write a story, a tale of power, you know, a recapitulation of one of your high spiritual experiences, or a dream, a meditation, you know, something. We're going to be using these things in social media. So, if you would, please write a story of recapitulation. Or you can even use some, one that you've done before, but I'd like you to submit it to

0:22:29
The Tales of Power Team. The Tales of Power Team. They posted a Google form on one of the channels.

0:22:35
Okay, there's a Google form on a channel. On a Slack.

0:22:39
On a Slack.

0:22:40
They can repost it.

0:22:41
Yeah, and they should repost it.

0:22:43
You should make it available for everyone. But please give a story because these are things, these are ways that we're going to be reaching out to people, sharing the light through our experiences. So please submit one of those. This is a way to support the Buddha Dojo.

0:23:09
Kamsahamnida. Kamsahamnida.

0:23:09
All right, so I'll see some of you up on that channel.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
