0:00:00
Alright everyone, so we made it and we're here after the park hours that the park ranger let us in because he was like being really really nice. more and more that there's you know more and more population one more people and energy that come down here there's gonna be more limitations so we've come here for you know 15 years late at night and never seen a ranger here. It had never been a problem. And now we found a ranger who is really nice to us to let us come in. So, wow, thank you. But, you know, the past couple times that we've been here, over at the Lava 2 step, where it's outside of the park, there's people just partying and just having a good time. So to go over and sit and meditate there is like a little funky. So this place that we can rely on forever. So let's definitely appreciate that the Ranger let us in and appreciate that we have this time here together. So anyway, we're here now and it's good. I'd like to start with meditation. So, Chakra is the next round of three songs?

0:02:19
Yeah.

0:02:20
Okay.

0:02:21
Alright, we're going to meditate for three songs. Okay. So meditate on any chakra. You can do the pala chakra, you can do the heart or the third eye. Or you can just be still. But let's all meditate. We're going to meditate together. So sit up nice and straight. And we're going to sit for three songs. Let's begin.

0:02:53
So, let's begin. So, Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So, So, so So You you So, thank you. so So, So, so So Thank you. So, the the the the the the the the so the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So, so Very nice. So I'm going to give some transmissions tonight. And we're going to start with the transmission from last time. And maybe you come and you think thoughts and stress out, whatever. It's okay. It doesn't have to happen tonight. But last night I did two transmissions, and tonight I'm doing a third.

0:16:52
This is so that in your second attention, there's a pattern where it's clear. It's not ambiguous. So this is hitting you over the head with enlightenment. And you know, you know, sitting out here, you can have all sorts of thoughts and expectations and all sorts of confusions and that's fine. But when we leave here tomorrow and the next day and the next day and up until the solstice, this is the transit. So tonight doesn't matter. These are just the transmissions that give you the door, the initiation, the way. And I would recommend that you meditate deeply. You come You're in North Kona and you go to the beach. You're in South Kona and you go to your lanai. And you meditate. And you draw upon these dimensions from this transmission. powerful window of enlightened energy. So it doesn't have to be that you become enlightened but it's possible to become enlightened from this transmission. So I'm going to do the transmission again. So I want you to feel the energy and the power of the transmission. Because I want you to, not that you have to become enlightened tonight, but I'd like you to take your time when you're on your own to really deeply reflect on it and meditate. Because with this transmission, you can become enlightened. Several people last night became enlightened. It's not a stretch of the imagination. It's a reality. It's very true. So it's not something that is impossible. It's something very possible. So we're going to sit. We're going to get the transgressions. And really, really feel it. But you can also accept work on that teaching, work on that koan. So this is something that's very, very beautiful, powerful, real. And we are going to sit in this transmission for... How many songs, Jennifer? Oh, three songs, okay. Three songs. So, sit up nice and straight. Either soft focus on the third eye or just still your mind. And I'm going to give this transmission that I gave twice yesterday, I'm going to give the transmission again today. pure, beautiful, clear energy and it not only opens the door to enlightenment but it actually lifts you through that door. So it is an enlightenment if you accept it. So sit up nice and straight and let's begin. So set your prices straight and let's begin.

0:21:15
to the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so so So, I'm going to go ahead and get my phone. the the the the the the the so the the the the Thank you. the the the the the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the So, the the the the the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Thank you. you the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. you the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the you Perfect. We all got dumped on. But it was beautiful. The rain was beautiful. The sun was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The sun was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The sun was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful. The water was beautiful.

0:34:53
The rain comes down and washes away things. Gets you to wash away certain thoughts and then just be dumped on. It's good. It's beautiful. So I'd like to talk about the solstice. Because I'd like you to have your solstice experience alone. So I'm going to be in Hungary, and I'm going to be doing a 5am solstice there, which will be a 5 p.m. solstice here. It's something that you could attend, but I would say, no, don't attend by solstice. I'll give some solstice teaching, you know, like I always do. Same old thing. Because these transmissions of enlightenment, they are for last night, and they're for tonight, and they're for tomorrow. There's a very powerful doorway to enlightenment up into the sulfus. Enlightenment can happen after the sulfus, too. I'd like you to go for it, to meditate deeply, up into the solstice. And especially at the time of the solstice. So, on the day of the solstice, at the time of the solstice, I'd like you to have a buddy. It could be one buddy, or it could be a group of four people, but not three or not five.

0:36:53
Nothing over four.

0:36:54
It could be two or four. And you guys can drive to a place in a bigger group, but then you should be separate in a group of two or four. And I'd like you to sit together, meditate together.

0:37:14
I'd like you to be together and share the sultan.

0:37:19
It doesn't have to be the best, highest person. It doesn't have to be the most enlightened buddy.

0:37:31
Anybody.

0:37:32
Any half-buddy.

0:37:33
Wed-buddy. Somebody. Yeah, anybody. And just sit together. I'd like you to go to your place of predilection. A place that you really like. A place where you would like to have your enlightenment. it might be here it might be Monica might be anywhere anywhere on the island or if you're going back to California please go to Shasta do it in Shasta but if you're in California go to Shasta Shasta is such a magical place please go there it's magically powerful if you're here you can choose where you want to go but there's something that I want you to show two dimensions to the buddy. And I want the buddy to show two dimensions to you. So I'm going to show the two dimensions to you. I'm going to say this. You know how I'm magical? magical like I can do magical things mystical things and all our desert trips and stuff when I met Rama I wasn't magical he was the magical guy and yet somehow I learned it somehow it's transferred to me so it also transfers to you. After all the spiritual teachings you've been through, all the power tricks, all these magical things, the magic transfers to you. It's very important as a mystical Buddhist for you to see that you also have these mystical magical powers. And the first one is going to be a thing, a place. Our place tonight is going to be this wall behind me. This is a temple built by the Manihuni, or Hawaiians. And what we're going to do is we're going to sit for just about a minute gazing at this wall behind me. Something you guys have done very many times. But when you do this gazing, I'm also transferring to you the power of gazing, which is that you can draw someone's attention to a mountain and it can become magical, illuminated, aura, disappear, you can find the different dimensions in it and it's for a minute, looking at the mountains behind me even if it's raining to look nice and straight

0:41:38
and let's poke it, let's begin I'm going to go ahead and close the window. So I'm going to go ahead and get the camera. Okay, very good. Um, one more to do tonight. And then, we're calling it off if you want to. But, um, one more to do. And this is a gigantic... of water. Well, I'd like you all just to look at me for, you know, 30 seconds, 45 seconds.

0:43:38
It's all right, it washed away. And again, this is a dimension that I really want you to be able to connect to. So, just look up here to me. I'm going to go ahead and get started. Okay. Thank you.

0:44:27
I'm going to do a little bit of a massage. All right, very, very good. The green is so beautiful! Oh! Laughter That's pretty rainy. Oh, is it raining? It's so wonderful. That part. Alright, so. Rain is good! It's raining. And, uh, we did return to the tent. We did return to the tent. We did return to the tent. We did return to the tent. We did return to the tent.

0:47:10
We did return to the tent. We did return to the tent. And we did the transmission. This is very important. And also these two transmissions, the wall and then the knee. Very important. Oh, by the way, where's my speaker? Am I going to lose electricity? Hello, can you hear me? So, these two transmissions of looking at the wall and looking at me are extremely important. Because on the solstice with your buddies, each of you has to connect to those dimensions. mountain, a place of power that you can see from the place of power that you're sitting in. And you say, okay, we're going to focus on that mountain, that bridge, that ocean, something that you find as a place of power. And you have to open the dimensions that I just opened here. And it's raining! And it's not the easiest thing! But you can do it. And then, you have to say, now look at me. For a minute, for two. So you have to open the dimensions of opening the dimensions of a place and also showing the dimensions of enlightenment through you. These are two classic and mega powerful enlightened mystical teachings. You have to see that the same enlightened teachings that you see in me are in you and they are in you. You can view them and it's like Mr. whatever something emporium. You know? Like, uh, you know, but you're magical! When I do drama, I'm like, whoa, you're magical! But look, look at the magic I got now! I'm like, oh, should I die now? And yet, we're here together. And even in this brain, there's a power, the power of these transmissions. These are powerful, enlightened, mystical transmissions. You know the transmission of the mystical teachings of enlightenment. Now, it's very important that when you do these teachings, you're doing it with your buddy, right? Your enlightenment buddy. And you're not doing it to show off. You're not doing it in any egotistical way. You can never do these teachings in a, let me show you my power. It's horrible, it will trap you in such a horrible karmic way and cut you off from enlightenment. But, if you do it in a way where you say, I'm not a powerful person, but look, I can make that mountain disappear. And then you go, wow, that's amazing. That's amazing. Or look at me. I meditate, I go to the same dimensions that Samaritan showed me, and then I disappear, or I become a big light. It's important for us to do that. Do that with your buddy on the soul step. It's so important to do that. And then do it, and then hear what your buddy you're a shrew. Even if it's not so powerful. You guys are powerful peers. So, you know, share with each other. But these dimensions of power are very important. to open up another doorway of magic within you. And you have to do it on the solstice, and you have to do it for your buddy, and your buddy has to tell you what they saw, what their awareness was. This is something extremely empowering for you. But this is something you can never take advantage of, and you can never do it out of egotism. But you can always do it for the Dharma. This focus, you can do it with your friends, with your buddies, as an exercise of seeing the power of light. This is the way to do it. So this is a very, very, very important thing. Whether you become, you know, whether you're liberated before then or not, this is so important. So do this correctly. And, I got probably lots of other things to say, but this is the most important thing. The transmission of enlightenment, that was the first rain. And then these two transmissions of enlightened mysticism. And that was the second rain, which never stopped. So now we're just going to walk into the ocean. Alright, but anyway, thank you all so much, this was really wonderful. And, you know, on our walk out, you know, feel the rain. Because the rain is beautiful. I mean, it gets in the way, but it's also very beautiful. So, thank you all so much. Be well. And I've got more tea things, but this is good for now because it's really watery. And for all of you who came to the MayLab, thank you very much. But follow these teachings. The transmission, meditate and reach for enlightenment. It can happen. It's happening. It's happened, and it's happening. And, develop yourself so that on the tolstice that you can do, you know, the Buddhist standards. You're full, you're full of it. Oh my god. You're so full of it. Alright everyone, thank you so much. Have a good night. Have a safe, dry, peaceful. Aloha to the Hala. Aloha and Mahalo. Aloha and Mahalo.

0:54:52
Happy Parakeet Birthday!




Transcribed with Cockatoo
