0:00:00
So, we're going to begin the transmissions. So the most important thing is to accept your enlightenment. Accept your Buddha nature. You don't have to accept somebody else's. You have to accept yours. This is what gets in the way so often. We read some story about you know some enlightened master who did all these crazy things. And then we go, wow I can accept his Buddha nature which is good. But when you get to this time for you to be enlightened you have to accept your Buddha nature. You have to accept your enlightenment. Now your enlightenment is not going to be like the story of that yogi who walk on water and who could sit in samadhi for years at a time or something like that right so it's not gonna be their story it's gonna be your story but you know your buddha nature your enlightenment so you might not be that mystical, magical, crazy, wise, amazing master. You might just have a very zen kind of simplicity and nothing happens. So we start to make stories that become barriers. We can accept these other enlightened people as enlightened. But in accepting them as enlightened, we create a barrier to our own enlightenment. Because you go, oh, there's a definition. That's something that's enlightened. But me? Me? There's no enlightenment here. No, none at all. And that's the funniest joke because you are enlightened. And the most important thing is to accept your enlightenment. It's to have a recognition of your Buddha nature and accept it as who you are. This whole thing is a paradigm shift from self to eternity, from finite self-acceptance to infinite free self-awareness. You have to say, no, it's real. It's true. That I am enlightenment. It's true that in every meditation I experience enlightenment. And so can you. So this is the time to make that transformation from a definition of life as eternity, as Buddha nature. And that plays out in so many beautiful ways and it unfolds continuously. It's not one big boom, it's a liberation. Because once you break free from the gravity of self, you have a salvakuppa samadhi with this transmission, then it becomes an awakening, an enlightenment, liberation. Liberation once you have that liberation you don't go back Never come on that talked about this With his first Salva Kripa Samadhi he had also realization liberation And he's like well get one of those and everything's different.

0:05:16
Everything's different.

0:05:18
And Rama always used to say, you know, enlightenment's way up here. But he also said, once I'll look up to Samadhi and you're a little bit enlightened. So, a little bit enlightened is good. If there's a little bit of enlightenment, then you keep learning and growing, and then there's more. So it's good to accept your enlightenment. Whatever you could see. You know, if it's a little enlightenment, accept that. Say, oh, that's enlightenment. Accepting samadhi in your meditation. Now I'm going to give the transmission of moksha. I'm going to give it twice. So we're And so it's probably not gonna happen. And, uh, then we'll talk a little bit more. And I'll answer some questions. And then we'll do it again. Then it's definitely not gonna work that time. Ha ha ha. Yeah. Yeah, no, honestly, you can't mess with this thing. All right, so, instead of passing straight, we're going to sit from one to three songs. I'm pretty sure we're going to hear the three eventually. And again, soft focus on the third eye and and In this in this meditation, I'm gonna do the transmission and it's just what I've been talking about Accept your enlightenment Accept your meditation as perfect and And I'm and I'm I brought us to the door Before but now the doors open and we're going in. This is the transmission. Nothing has to happen. Remember, there's nothing that you can do. There's nothing that you can do. Just be here. And then know that you can be enlightened and accept your enlightenment. Say, got it! Thanks! Where did I lose that thing anyway? It was always here. Buddha nature is always with you. Alright, so we're gonna sit soft, focus on the third eye. This is wonderful. Let's begin.

0:08:55
So, the the the the So, So so So so the Wonderful. So, we're in a very powerful time, a very powerful transit. I think I noticed like maybe a few days ago that the solstice energy was opening and I was like, oh my God, everything's happening. We gotta do it." So it's really good. Very powerful time. And this teaching is something that you might realize tonight. But every day until the solstice, you should be taking these

0:16:34
teachings to heart. And up until the solstice, there's a big window for liberation. So these teachings tonight, you hear, you experience, and maybe nothing happens. Everything happens. And then you meditate on it. And then there's a very, very, very big, powerful, powerful opening teaching on the solstice. And up to the solstice, from here to the solstice is a powerful window of enlightenment to understand these teachings, to practice these teachings. And I just gave you the transmission. of Salva Coppa Samadhi liberation, self-realization. Not just a high meditation or an epiphany that lasts a while. It is something the self doesn't come back from. It is being one with all things, or God-realization. and it doesn't return to the self. So I wanted to give this teaching a little bit early because I want you to work on it. If it doesn't happen tonight, it can happen and every day can be radically different. You know, any day could be a day where you're like, I feel cranky. I got cranky enlightenment. And then you'll open up and say, oh, I have eternal cranky, eternal cranky enlightenment. That's what we're talking about. So let enlightenment manifest as it will. Let it happen as it will. Don't say, oh, it should be this way, it should be that way. I don't have an idea. Don't expect it to be like someone else's experience. Accept your experience of enlightenment. It might be very like just deep inside. You don't have to accomplish anything. Remember Jed McKenna? That guy can't meditate with shit. So if your meditation is bad, do what I'm telling you. Accept your meditation. It's perfect. Guess what he would do if he tried to meditate. He'd say, I don't meditate because it sucks. If it sucks, it's perfect. No, really. So this is why we were looking at the different teachers that book. It's a very important book. The two Lesleys. The double Lesley. Lesley squared. Very interesting, beautiful, amazing, wonderful, enlightened woman. And very different enlightenments. Different stories. That one Leslie that studied with Brahma, I'm like, how do you know this weird shit, man? Oh, my God. There's like so many out there dimensions but man she is like she perceives reality that way and got liberated that way. Then the other Leslie just beautiful, very grounded, a lot of insight. Then the immense that we saw together. Wonderful David Spiro. So deep, profound, and funny. Totally wonderful. And then, I don't know, Adi Asante. Adi Asante is so good at speaking of like the eternal. He's all, let me tell you what the void is like. And he can talk about it for an hour. And then he's so good at it that you're like, oh, well, I guess now I know what the void is like. He's like, no, no, no, wait, don't listen to what I say. He's like, I'm explaining it just to give you some context, but it's not what I say. So he knows it. He's so good at explaining it, but he explains it away if you only believe the words. But he's a very, very, very wonderful person. So, I wanted you to look at their stories of enlightenment.

0:22:31
Because they're very different.

0:22:33
But they're also, at the same time, the same. They transcended the self in all sorts of different ways. go into weird higher astral space alien dimensions and then one of them is very Zen. You know it's like they're they're very different stories and so there's not one story and you know I've taken you to many enlightened stories, biographies that we've read. But now you should accept your story as enlightenment. And it's not going to be like any of theirs. It's going to be your story. Your story of, this is what happened to me, and this is what I did. In fact, tomorrow, I'd like you to spend an hour or two writing down a recapitulation of your pathway to enlightenment. For you to say, yeah, so, yeah, so yeah when I was four I thought hey and then I went to a meditation class and I thought oh hey and then I made some more and I was like oh hey and then I got rewinding like oh hey yeah so you know whatever whatever Whatever whatever your true recapitulation of your path Like what's it what are those main points like when did you first think of spirit? When did you first come across it? Catholic school You know, it's like Then where did it bring you how did it get you to tonight? And also, what are the teachings tonight? To accept your Buddha nature, to accept your meditation, to accept your samadhi. What are those things? What is it to you? So tomorrow before, you know, sometime during the day, but definitely before we meet in the evening, I'd like you to write down your recapitulation of your spiritual path up until tonight. Or up until you write it. You might have a meditation before that. So accept your enlightenment the way that it is for you. You have Buddha nature. And so if you're hard-headed and you don't see anything, and you're stupid and ugly, and you go, that's my enlightenment! Phew! No, really, whatever it is. I mean if you have like weird bad qualities that might be like Marpa. Marpa was like angry all the time. But he would burn off his karma. Yeah you can do that. You're like, what's my problem? Whatever it is, accept your enlightenment. It might be that you're very mystical. It might be that your enlightenment is very big. Lila's enlightenment was very big. And is big. But she has big expressions of enlightenment. I also have a very big expression of enlightenment. But you might find that you just have insight, very zen, very still, and simple. And you might find that you're really into writing or whatever. You know, Sahaja paints and writes. You know, you might find that you express it through computer programming or martial arts, whatever. Whatever it is for you, it's your Buddha nature. It's something fully accept and it can change. Might be one thing one day and something the next day. But whatever it is, accept it. This is a time of accepting your eternality. Like, but for sure. But for real. Not as a, that's a neat idea, until I run into my karmas and get pissed off. No, no, this has to be a place where you fully accept it. And then when your karmas come and they float through your head, instead of being pissed off, you're free from them. You see them, you just don't grab onto them. They're like clouds that go by. Ramakrishna said it's like if you have smoke in a house sticks to the walls and makes everything blamey but if you don't have a house you have smoke right here in the open air it just goes away so if you let go of the self you let go of the house and And then that smoke, yeah, smoke of desires, angers, fears, all sorts of weird stuff will come by. It just won't stick to you at all. You'll recognize it.

0:29:25
And that's wisdom.

0:29:26
To recognize what it is and just not have a problem with it. That used to be a thing that might have gotten me. But I have no house to be gotten I'm homeless that's money yeah you're like you know what if I don't have a house I don't need a Hawaiian contractor boom saved a lot of money there. Enlightenment, good job. Yeah, so, um, yeah, it's not that any bad thought that you've ever had or pain won't come up. It just won't stick. The fact that it doesn't stick is is enlightenment. See enlightenment isn't some high you know state of mind. The end all be all state. On top of the mountain you know sitting there in some weird kind of blissful state. It's not some highest condition of mind. It is actually letting go. Letting go. Letting go of any grasping to any state of mind. Any idea, any attachment, any aversion to any state of mind. It's not a state of mind. It's being, enlightenment is being fluid. It's the ability to be in a state of mind and not be attached to it. And just to let that state shift and go into another state and not be attached to it. Not like it, not dislike it, not grab onto it. Just let those different certain states of mind and certain

0:31:55
experiences

0:31:57
And you have aversion to other ones. That's where the ego is developed But when you just you say I'm gonna accept I I accept my enlightenment And then When the good the bad and the ugly come up, it's smoke in the open sky. When you say, I don't accept my enlightenment, then any thought that comes up gets trapped in the house and makes cleaning the walls Yeah, so it's important that at a very deep level, you have a recognition in your heart of accepting your enlightenment. You'll have that moment, either tonight or on the way to the solstice. You'll have that moment where you go into salva copa savani, and it doesn't just liberate your mind, doesn't give you an epiphany, doesn't just show you a moment, a flash of eternity. Because of the transmissions of the Kala Chakra, it becomes a liberation, a self-realization. So, I'd like to know, we're going to do the transmission again, but I'd like to know if you have a question, then shine your light.

0:34:31
Shine your light. Woo-hoo.

0:34:37
And then I'll say, hey, what about you? Okay, I see a light. How about you with the light?

0:34:45
Nope?

0:34:46
Just checking the time? Got it. Playing a video game. That was cool, Zamora. I just caught my harsh 4.

0:34:56
Okay, good.

0:35:40
Okay, good. So you're trying to solve something where you feel a tension. And that's a... that tension is the self. The self is like, I can't relax. Well then accept that you can't relax and accept that as enlightenment. So Rama, great great enlightened teacher, sometimes had tensions that he couldn't relax. Maybe it was you know the press writing articles in the LA Times San Francisco Examiner Chronicle or whatever about him. Those are tensions where people would focus on this very sensitive high enlightened teacher and there would be a tension that he was cut off from his enlightenment. So if you have a pain, a tension, there's no conflict with enlightenment. So the thing is that you set up this tension as something that you have to do to get rid of so that you can get higher, so that you can be enlightened. But you have to accept your enlightenment as is. Jesus had a pretty difficult tension. Yeah. But he was so deeply, profoundly connected to eternity. That even though it hurt, he was chastised and murdered on a cross. Even though it hurt and it was the worst Dharmic injustice, he was not pulled away from his enlightened awareness. He couldn't be. He was enlightened, liberated, freed of the self. Yeah, it hurt, it was bad. There wasn't something in the way of his enlightenment, even though he was getting beaten and killed. So there's nothing in the way. There's nothing, there's no step to do. There's not an additional thing. And that tension might not go away. You're a psychically sensitive person in a really difficult world. It's a painful world. So that pain might not go away,

0:38:36
that stress might not go away.

0:38:38
But it doesn't have to. do. You can recognize your Buddha nature right now even though there's that pain, there's that stress. It seems like a barrier, seems like a wall, but it's not. The wall doesn't exist. Only enlightenment exists. Any other questions? Yes. Done! Yeah. I like it when you, um, that, that, see that's it, that's, that's it. You

0:39:23
answered your own question. No, you really actually, you had it as a, as a problem, as

0:39:30
it, then you saw the truth. And that's accepting your enlightenment. So that's a very good

0:39:37
demonstration. But just for the sake of everybody else.

0:39:44
We have responsibilities, bills to pay, rent, all sorts of stuff. We have to do things for other people, for our dogs, for our kids, for our moms, for our sangha, for everybody. We have to do things for everyone. And when we do things for everyone, we do it from a place of giving, a place of compassion. And when we do it selflessly, it's very uplifting. It's very beautiful. It feels like a pressure Then we have fun with it We get powerful and so the pressure is not so bad or it's pressure that we have fun with it and go. Oh I'm gonna play a game with it and these are all techniques of Buddhist enlightened awareness Where we have wisdom and Dharma techniques you guys have so many Dharma techniques You guys can deal with anything in the world You have you have to teach it to the empowerments for all sorts of anything So you you got what you need so then when something comes up Where it's like well, I have this heavy responsibility man. Then you make it you make it fun, you make it bright, you uplift it. But it does not stand in the way of your enlightenment. Not at all. Not in any way. In fact, a responsibility, any responsibility, let's say that you got saddled with a hundred with $100,000 a day for whatever reason. That seems like a 400-pound gorilla on your back. It can be a 200... 187-kilogram gorilla. So it's like this big thing, right? And you can say, whoa, this is a heavy burden, I've got to deal with it and yeah you do because that's because the world sucks and everything's hard and everything's difficult suffering doesn't end pain doesn't end but you could be like yeah but I'm enlightened and this thing this cross that I have to bear wink wink is something that I'm gonna bear just to do it because I got to do it. It's just you know it's controlled folly. Whatever you have to do, you don't believe that it's karma. You just do it because it's something to do. It's something you do perfectly. Whatever presents itself in your life, you just do it. That's controlled falling. Nothing matters. Not even your responsibilities. It's just that you take care of them with the greatest impeccability. The story of the Zen master. Zen master's sitting there all zenning out. And then some stressed out lady goes, he's the father. What, who's in charge? He's like, oh, is that so? Okay, sure. He raises the kid. And then she goes, no, he wasn't the father. And then he'd take him and say, this is the father. And then he'd say, oh, is that so? So he got a kid dumped on him. Life gives you lemons, you have Ushapana. So whatever comes, whatever difficulty or hardship, if it seems like a responsibility responsibility or an obligation, we face it with impeccability. And we also don't give a shit. We just, it's controlled folly. We do it for the sake of, we do whatever we do, we do with impeccability. We just do everything really, really, really, really perfectly. It's the Dharma. And if it's a responsibility that's difficult, an obligation that's difficult, you get dumped on, you know, something that wasn't your fault or whatever, whatever it is that comes across your life, there's a Dharma to deal with it. And when you deal with it with Dharma, it is the Dharma. It is the pathway to enlightenment, no matter what the crazy crazy story. So, yeah, responsibilities are just places where we apply impeccable attention for no reason. Obligations, which are just impeccable and for no reason. Oh man, I got to wake up and meditate. Application. Perfect meditation. Whatever. You know, we just do, we do whatever we do, we do it because of impeccability. And we do it because impeccability is the Dharma. And whatever it is, whatever hardship, difficulty, whatever comes across your awareness is your experience of enlightenment. Alright, good question. I see another light.

0:46:13
Sometimes it's like without a doubt, part of it's self-destruction.

0:46:19
Sometimes it's like, you're not going to have to pay for it.

0:46:25
to be responsible and to be enlightened. That's the crux of the matter. If you if you say, no, even though everything that I see says I'm not enlightened and everything's bad, I, in my heart of hearts, in my mind I am acknowledging my Buddha nature and accepting my Buddha nature and I am dedicating myself to reside in my Buddha nature. If you believe in your Buddha nature, you intend and conclude to exist in your Buddha nature, then this teaching will make you enlightened and you can't go back to self. The self is tricky but this, this, it's not playing the same game. The self is silly because the self just keeps playing over these karmic cycles and, and yeah, it's very, there's very, very, there's a lot of subtlety to self, but this teaching absolutely bypasses self. It has to be done with great integrity. It has to be done with a whole-hearted, complete focus on accepting your enlightenment. You have to be all in. And then if you say, no I'm not all in because my self keeps getting in the way, and I'll say, well then accept yourself. Accept that self, that tricky self. Accept that as part of your enlightenment. Accept that as part of your Buddha nature. No thought, no karma, there's no barrier, there's no locked door. Even the worst thought is not a barrier. The bad feeling, the greatest karma, nothing is a barrier to enlightenment. I mean this is a very very very high teaching but this is a kala chakra teaching. It's a teaching that's beyond karma and when you identify your mind with this teaching, with your enlightenment, with your Buddha nature, then karma can't trick you. When the self shows up and says, oh I was just fooling myself. That's actually unraveling and opening and blooming a higher enlightened Dharma. But then you say, oh look the self actually attaching to a new idea and you go oh now usually that would make you go oh man I got stuck it put me down I thought it was real but it wasn't it was illusion yeah all of that attachment and limitation and illusion yields enlightened awareness if it comes up as something that that thinks closes you down, it actually, it is enlightenment. It is part of your Buddha nature. So there's nothing in your mind or your experience that is not Buddha nature. And so, oh, well, something came up where I'm angry. And that's definitely not like according to who some asshole you read about in the Apanishad I'm pissed off there is rice that wasn't racist they eat rice I'm not kidding they eat rice they get pissed off too so yeah so this is the thing when you come up with a limitation Or if in a reaction you go, well, that really sucked. That really is the wrong direction. Then you have to look at it for real and say, wait a minute, I've got this transmission. I'm working on this dharma. And when this thing comes up, this thing, yeah, it hurts, but there's hurt, there's pain, there's suffering, even after enlightenment. So you go, it hurts so it can't be enlightenment. No, that's enlightenment too. And you say, well it's a barrier, it's something that closes me off, it cuts me off. No, it's Buddha nature, it's enlightenment too. So when these things come up, instead of saying, wow, I got tricked by the self, they say, well, that trick revealed Buddha nature. You can't lose Buddha nature and everything that comes up in your mind reveals Buddha nature. So when you get trapped, you get liberated. There's no trap. There's no trap of the mind. When you identify with Buddha nature, then enlightenment is in every way, every aspect of your being. When you get trapped, you go, oh wow, that really old Buddha nature. You have to have that disposition of enlightenment. You put yourself in this position of accepting your Buddha nature, accepting your enlightenment, and then you're going to have a moment where you go from self to a Samadhi, Yamsa,

0:54:03
that

0:54:04
liberates you to the core of your heart. Then you go, wow, I can't look at everything the same way. I mean I can, I'll see it, and I'll understand it. I'll see the same patterns, but it's enlightenment. I'm just free from it. That's what this is. more questions yeah yeah sure what what what

0:55:08
I don't know. Where did you read that? Oh, sorry. So, sorry, sorry. So does it mean that spiritual bypassing is not engaging in certain things that exist and it's like

0:55:41
like going okay I'm not gonna focus on some parts of reality I'm just gonna be like like off of my la la land of my ideas Ah, yes, okay, I understand. But no, I think this is important because this is why we have these talks about facing the samskaras. You absolutely have to face the samskaras and walk right into them and know them completely and go beyond them. Because if you don't do that, you can't get higher. But if you do that, you do the work and you go through it, it's not bypassing, you've walked through it. But then after you walk through it, you have this wisdom. And it'll be like, huh? Now I see that desire. I will never touch that desire I've already walked through it and you have to do that for liberation So so this is why we did that consideration on The samskaras because if we didn't do that and I and I just tried to skip us to this thing Then it really wouldn't work. You have too much karma that pulls you back. So you actually have to face the samskaras so that you don't do spiritual bypassing. But then once you go through the samskara, you can take this teaching to enlightenment. But even after enlightenment, that samskara is not going to be gone. But you don't bypass it because you've been through it with wisdom. Okay, that's my answer and I have to go to the bathroom. And I'm sticking to it. Okay, thank you. Okay, thank you. Okay, another 15 minute break.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
