0:00:00
Hello, my name is Ijeya and for our business yoga satsang today, Sambhara has asked me to start things off with some of my experiences in the At-Body Yoga. And I'd like to start with a meditation, of course. make sure you're sitting up nice and straight and let's begin.

0:00:30
So So the the the the so you you so Wonderful. Wonderful, thank you. So today I'd like to talk about job yoga, business yoga, and bad habits, or bad habits and addictions.

0:02:21
So of course, Sambara gave a beautiful and empowering teaching about this recently and Whether I'm so excited to share some of my experiences with yoga as it relates to bad habits and addictions is that from my own experience I found that apart from meditation It's really our job yoga Building a strong day job building a strong career and then you know our business yoga sangha projects where we get to work together on a business or a non-profit or a project that can be the most powerful ways to rise above these bad habits, they happen in the physical world right so we overeat and have an entire pizza, plus a box of cookies. A glass of wine would have been perfectly fine, but after the third bottle of wine, that was probably a little bit too much. And we know that these things might be even okay in moderation, but when we overindulge, they lower our state of mind, they lower our attention, they take away our power, they drain our energy. And so I think we all face these one way or another. I've had a really challenging addiction to online poker. In fact, my life partner, gosh, whom I love so dearly, recently left me because she said, you're just spending too much time playing poker. And I was convinced she was bluffing,

0:06:33
but she called me out on that.

0:06:37
So we have these bad habits, and certainly I faced these, especially in the first few years of getting on the pathway to enlightenment, I realized that almost my entire life was a bad habit. I would drink a lot on the weekends and so from Friday night through sometimes Sunday afternoon, I'd either be drunk or recovering from being drunk. I would just waste time doing things that weren't productive. This was back when I was in college, there wasn't social media, but I would still just waste a lot of time. And it was challenging. So especially I think during the COVID pandemic, it's been even harder because there's so much pressure and we couldn't engage in other people and in our work and other activities the way we normally would. And so, gosh, there's not much else to do besides, like, eat a lot of delivery fast food and drink a lot of alcohol and maybe smoke something and then just play video games or watch Netflix or YouTube and you know check in on all our social media channels right it's like been especially challenging during COVID and maybe things are opening up and then maybe they're not so it's really it's really challenging so I want to share how I originally tried to deal with a lot of these bad habits and then a lot better, and in particular, how this relates to job yoga. So if you've succumbed to any of these, and I mean, you can go down the list, I've listed a bunch of them, but there's obviously more. I think one of the challenging ones is online pornography. There's so much that we're exposed to, apart from just the standard social media and other things that that are really hard for us and we always get an initial rush, or some kind of reward when we when we indulge in that but then afterwards we just, we don't feel online videos and movies, what have you, and then it's like three or four in the morning, and I'm like, oh my goodness, I can't believe I just spent the last eight hours watching the last three Marvel movies for the eighth time. And I'm a horrible person, right? Or I can't believe I ate that entire box of cookies and I feel terrible. Whatever it is, it's like we go through this process of recognizing now that we've succumbed to a bad habit and I'm a terrible person. I feel horrible and now I'm probably never going to be enlightened. And gosh, I hope no one ever finds out that I was, you know, up all night drinking or what have you. And gosh, if my meditation teacher or my friends in the sangha knew, they'd probably tell me to just like give up on the pathway to enlightenment altogether because it's hopeless. No one could be as hopelessly stuck with their bad habits as me. And we just go through these stories and we're very good, especially in America, I think, at feeling guilt and shame and beating up on ourselves for these bad habits we find ourselves wrestling with. And then I would grit my teeth and I would say, okay, never again. I'm never having another drink again. of 2,183 calories every day, mostly broccoli. And never again will a gram of processed sugar pass through my lips. And I'm gonna grit my teeth and force myself to go beyond this bad habit to no longer be this horrible person. And of course that works for like three or four hours. And then you go through a process of, well, you know, that was a little extreme. Like it's probably, anything in moderation, right? And then you go back on the side of indulgence and we go through these cycles over and over and over again. And so one of the things that I've really learned is that it's very hard to stop an addiction or a bad habit right when you're in the middle of it. But it always concludes one way or another and then on the flip side you have these moments of recognizing it wasn't very positive. And the first way to start to grow beyond the bad habit is to not go into guilt and shame and beating yourself up. So that's so easy and common. And then you just go through the cycle again and again. But when we can look at a bad habit, especially when we're free of it for a moment, maybe after a really strong meditation or a martial arts practice or really strong exercise or time with other sangha members that's been really uplifting, when we can look at the bad habit, we can just see clearly that it isn't positive. We don't need to beat ourselves up. Everyone goes through these habits. But we can see that it's not positive, it's not empowering. And then we look for better habits. We look for ways that we can substitute the time and energy we're putting into these bad habits into something that's much more powerful and uplifting and constructive. And this is why I love job yoga and our Sangha yoga projects. Because, you know, it can be pretty easy to be three hours into a Netflix binge and to just be like, you know what? Yeah, I'm watching a lot of Netflix, but, you know, I remember that Samvara said everything is enlightenment. And so this is definitely enlightenment. These reruns of Rick and Morty or whatever it is. And so I'm just going to keep going on it. In fact, I remember EJ I gave a talk on Buddha nature and everything has Buddha nature. So the Marvel Adventure Universe series of movies and shows also has Buddha nature. So I'm just going to keep watching. And we can rationalize all of these things and struggle with them. But, but when we, when we set a goal, a clear goal and aspiration within our job yoga within our career to get that first tech job, or to raise our rates, be in a more powerful position in our career, or to deliver a feature for the yoga project, or to reach a sales goal. These are incredibly tangible goals that we can set ourselves, and they require tremendous time and energy. And when we can connect with these very positive goals and really dedicate ourselves to them, because we recognize that they're really important, then all of a sudden we don't have time to spend all that energy on Netflix or social media. We have something better that's tangible, physical in the world to replace our, you know, lesser enlightening, less powerful habits with. And so what I found is that when I got to work on AppBuddy Yoga, I was responsible for the sales goals. And like my friend in the study, Ajna would say, those sales goals don't crush themselves. And so I would, I would just, I was so dedicated to that committed to the success of the yoga, that I didn't have time for so many of the other things that I might otherwise spend time on. And so rather than focusing on the bad habit, focusing on beating myself up, and staying stuck in that just circle of, you know, addiction and self-shame, guilt, etc., I focused on these higher tangible goals. Earning a black belt was also similar for me because martial arts was really hard for me. And so when I really dedicated myself to martial arts, I had something very specific to focus on. And I couldn't drain my energy in these other activities. But I love job yoga and our day job and career because they're so tangible, so obviously empowering. And we can literally spend eight to 10 to 12 hours a day working towards these goals. And when we do that, we actually, we burn off the bad habits, we empower ourselves and we grow beyond them. And so that really, I found that to be very, very helpful. And when I joined the AppBuddy Yoga, I found that so many of the yogis on that had reached that stage of maturity where, you know, yeah, we beat ourselves up for various things, but we didn't have the debilitating bad habits that just prevented us from having a strong career or working on a yoga and committing ourselves to a better use of our time. And it's incredibly powerful when you can do that. So that was one of the first ways I found that job yoga and business yoga can be helpful with bad habits. You substitute them for the things you have been doing. Now, once you get established in your career and you have maybe a yoga project that you're working on, it can still be easy to find many many bad habits of the mind. So what I found one of my most difficult bad habits that I faced wasn't necessarily spending too much time on social media or drinking too much or overeating or a lot of those sort of physical bad habits. I was so committed to yoga and having a strong practice in my career and working with other yogis that they didn't have to worry about that too much, but I have many bad habits of the mind. And I think one of the most challenging ones is self-doubt. Self-doubt is a habit of mind. And I think we all face it one way or another in the path. And so I would have a sales goal and it would seem impossible. And I would be very stressed about it. I would struggle with it. And I would really have a lot of these negative thoughts creep into my mind. And I'd be really stuck face to face with those self-doubts rather than able to just fully give myself to my goals and the team's goals and what we're trying to accomplish. So I think we all have these habits of mind that are also challenging and they're also disempowering and they hold us back. So like many things I'd love to say that there's a magic pill that you just take it and your self-doubts are gone. But again, working to build a very strong career and then working with others on Sangha yoga projects has been one of the most empowering ways for me to move beyond self-doubt. And I'll tell you what, when you're working for that first job, or you're working to increase your rate, there's always actions you can take to learn and to grow. And so if you simply have the resolve to not quit, then everything sort of shifts. Like to me, it wasn't a question of would we succeed with AppBuddy or not and would I, you know, eventually just give up. It became a question of, well, we're going to keep learning and growing until we're successful. And so in having that resolve, I found that a lot of my ego patterns went away. Now these negative habits and self-doubt and other things, they're just ways that our ego likes to stick around and keep our attention focused on being a separate individual self and limited by all of these problems. But the moment you really commit yourself to a goal and you give yourself to it, then like it's not it's not really relevant anymore. That self-doubt doesn't have the same pull and you don't get stuck on it in the same way. And so there were many times where I struggled with self-doubt and we were working on AppBuddy we weren't sure if we could do it. And there were many times where those doubts like proved true, where we missed a goal or, you know, we tried an acquisition or what have you, and we just failed. And then I could have just wallowed in that self-doubt, but there was always the next step to go forward. I remember one yogi really inspired me, she was talking about getting her first tech job,

0:21:18
and she said,

0:21:19
I just decided that I would never quit until I got my first job. And that every interview I took would just be a great learning opportunity, and eventually I'd get there. And I no longer had the fear of self doubt, it was all a process of learning. And when you can shift from like a question of success or failure to one of just ongoing learning and growth, then there's not really so much room for self-doubt because you can always improve, you can always learn a new skill, you can always take your rate higher. And so, so many of us within the OutBody Yoga in particular I think face lots of self-doubt, whether we were an individual programmer or an individual salesperson or one of the executives or a manager working in the organization, we all faced those self-doubts. But we also recognized that the benefit to the sangha and the community was greater than our self-doubt. And so, the other thing that's really important when you're struggling with these inner bad habits is to look beyond your own self and look at how you can support and help and be there for so many other Sangha brothers and sisters or others in your life, maybe it's a family member or dear friend, when we recognize that our actions impact other people and that every time we learn and grow, it's not only just about us and our own enlightenment and progress, it has the chance to lift others up, then we again, we move past this very limited cycle of self-doubt or bad habits and we see a much bigger picture. I don't think it's really possible to move beyond bad habits without love. And so finding that love, whether it's gratitude for our spiritual teacher, whether it's love for Sangha brothers and sisters, whether it's, you know, your pet rabbit or whatever it is, when you connect with love, it opens you up and it drowns out those voices of self-doubt, opens up your heart, and it's incredibly empowering. So, I remember that last time we were going for the acquisition in AppBuddy and we were negotiating with the lawyers and they just, they threw another wrench in our process of closing the sale. And Dharmu was leading it as the CEO, Parvati and I were very close in support, and he just came to us and was like, I think it's all going to, you know, fall apart. Again, we've been through this process so many times. And we were able to meet with Sambhara, and he shared with us some very powerful teachings, going beyond pity, but then also an empowerment around yoga. And one of the really beautiful, beautiful aspects of this teaching he gave us was that we recognized that not only was having success in App Buddy about, you know, a lot of what we wanted to accomplish and empowering ourselves, but that going through this process would allow us to provide true teachings and share true inspiration and provide lessons for us that we could share with others that could lift everyone else up in their careers and their yoga projects. And when we received that, it opened up a whole new perspective for what our success meant and what was possible. And we found a way through. We came together, we got to work together, and we found our way through. The other wonderful thing about Sangha is that it's usually a lot easier to see the good in someone else than within ourselves. So there were so many times when Dharma or Parvati or another member of the Apari team picked me up when I was really struggling. And they're like, hey, you know, Ijeya, you're actually not the worst spiritual seeker in the world, even though you think you are right this minute. You're not destined for failure. Like you feel you might be right this minute. Actually, you're a very powerful yogi and you're doing so many good things, and I know you can have success. And so really developing the friendships and relationships with not just your meditation teacher but other Sangha brothers and sisters where when you're having these hard times, struggling with a bad habit, etc. You can go for support. They can see often a lot more within you than you can. And so there's so many ways in which as a sangha we support one another. And when we really connect with that, we can move beyond these bad habits. The last thing I'll share that I really learned through the AppBuddy yoga and then the success we had was that when you're faced with a big challenge, when you finally commit yourself to having success, getting that day job in tech or raising your rate. And you start to really burn away these other bad habits that are just not constructive uses of your time. And then when you recognize that there's self-doubt, but you're like, I'm not gonna let that hold me back, I'm just gonna go for it no matter what. There is a tendency, I certainly experienced this, to then neglect the foundation of our practice. To neglect the very, the intangible aspects of our practice, particularly meditation and bodhicitta and compassion. Because we get so focused on the goal and we say, hey, the sales goal is really important. Getting this tech job is really important. I should just keep practicing my coding and practicing interviews. And if I skip a few meditations, that's okay. If I just work on the sales proposal all night and I don't meditate, that'll be fine. And I really just need to build my power. So yeah, that bodhicitta practice was really important, but how's it really going to help me get my rate up 20% right. So when we lose sight of our meditation practice and our bodhicitta practice of compassion and selflessness, the ego starts to take over in our day job career aspirations or our yoga projects that we're working on. And something happens where we're just missing a really key ingredient. I mean, you can look around and see lots of powerful, successful entrepreneurs have built companies and engineers who are making high rates and they don't have spiritual practice and they're not super happy or they're not super nice and they have a lot of challenging habits and states of mind, etc. that are very unenlightened. And when we rationalize away the time we need to spend to meditation and then we lose that connection to the light. And so it was fascinating because I would occasionally miss meditation, or what I would especially do is not take my meditation as seriously as I could, and I'd spend a lot of time thinking about my yoga, thinking about making sales, or thinking about that next step in the career I wanted to take. Being all pissed off at my boss, right? And that would consume my meditation. And what I found was that that just, that really set me back. And what's remarkable is we had our Apati success and we moved into these advanced teachings where now so many students are experiencing liberation and enlightenment and we're seeing how the practices that we learn in Buddha Dojo really work. But one of the things I learned was that when you're a beginner student, the foundation of our practice is meditation. When you then advance a little bit and you start working on a career and start working on yoga projects with other sangha members, even though those are incredibly empowering, the foundation of our practice is meditation. And I sort of had this sense, well, if I can just make enough money, or if I can, if I just help everybody have this yoga success, I can just close the sale, get this job, then I'll meditate amazing, right? Then I'll be able to really focus on the whole enlightenment thing and that process, you know. But I really got to get this job. We got to close that sale. And then we sold the Applied Company, we opened up the Advanced Teachings. And you know what the foundation of the practice is when you're an advanced student? It's meditation. It doesn't change. And you know all the bad habits or anything else that you struggled with that prevented you from meditating before, they're still there. And so when I look back over the process of having success with AppBuddy and everything we learned, my only real regret has nothing to do with all of the stupid mistakes I made that impacted our sales or that set us back. It has nothing to do with not knowing what to do or the failed acquisitions. It has nothing to do with that. I look back on all of that with real gratitude. But my only regret was that there were times where I focused too much on the results, and I didn't meditate the way I could, and I didn't cultivate compassion the way I could. And I just always love those around me, whether at work or within the sangha. Because ultimately when we, you know, when we set ourselves up to become powerful yogis, to have a strong career, to accomplish all of these things, it all still is only serving our enlightenment and our service to others and the love that we have for others. So I just hope this can be helpful to you. I hope that you stop beating yourself up about those bad habits. Find a goal within your career or day job or your Sangha yoga project that you can really give yourself to that's going to stretch you and that's going to be just way better to focus on than those habits and let them burn away. And you know, when you have those bad habits of mind and self-doubt, connect with other sangha members, and just recognize you're not going to quit. You might fall down a thousand times, and you get back up a thousand and one times. It's a great process to go through. And just never lose that connection with the light. Never, well, you're going to probably right from time to time, but as much as you can stay grounded in your meditation and continue to cultivate compassion so that the light fills you up and it flows through you to all those around you.

0:35:11
Thank you. So we're going to take a five minute break and when we come back, Sambara will give some

0:35:23
final teachings. Thank you. Okay, hello everyone.

0:35:32
So thank you, EJ, for such a beautiful teaching.

0:35:36
So wonderful. Now I'm going to give you another address on the same subject. But again, we're going to sit for one song, and we're going to focus on the navel chakra. So, I'd like everyone to sit up nice and straight, and bring a strong focus to the navel, and

0:36:14
we will meditate for one song.

0:36:17
Let's begin. to the next. the the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so so the the the the the the the the the the So so the the the So, I have to say EJ's teaching was a tremendous, beautiful teaching. It was a very, very high spiritual teaching. It's a teaching about yoga, it's a teaching about the mind,

0:41:16
the teaching about the heart and enlightenment. Now, Ijeya came to these insights from actually doing yoga, not trying yoga, but committing himself to yoga, he went through all sorts of what we call karmas. You know, you might notice that if you've done a little bit of yoga, there's something that comes up as a block, something that comes up as, oh, I don't feel like it, or I'm tired, or I'd rather do something else. But when you commit yourself, you go through all of those things, all of those things. And you get to a different level. This was the case for Milarepa, the great yogi of Tibet. teacher, Marva, to take rocks and to build a tower. He was supposed to, that was his job, that's all he had to do. And in doing it, he had to go through lots of thoughts and lots of feelings and lots of ideas of, I shouldn't, or it's hard, or I can't. And And by going through it, he became powerful, wise, and enlightened. And for successful yogis in the school, they commit to yoga. They commit to a practice, a discipline. And they do it, and when they do it, everything comes up. Everything comes up. The bad habits of the mind, the addictions and attachments of the spirit, it all comes

0:43:27
up.

0:43:29
In your work, that's your mind. My teacher, Ramana Pesce, he said, we could do this with a software company, or I could have you put a whole bunch of sticks together, like try to pile up a bunch of sticks. And when you pile up that bunch of sticks, I can point out your karmas, your mind. I can point out where you have faults while you're piling up six.

0:44:04
Oh, you piled it up wrong.

0:44:06
That's wrong.

0:44:07
So it can be anything.

0:44:09
Yoga is anything.

0:44:10
But in anything that you do, there is your karma.

0:44:15
There's your karma.

0:44:16
In anything that you do,

0:44:17
you're producing something out of the self that is your karma. And in that karma, that's where a Zen master can say, there's an error here. There's something to work on here. There's something to refine here. In the mind and in the spirit. So Ijeya went through this process. Many of the yogis in the school have gone through that process of working through piling up a bunch of sticks, the way we did the software company, working through whatever job it is. Milarepa had to pile stones into it. He had Mason and he wasn't what he started. So you've got to go through what you've got to go through. But Ijeya went through the process of yoga. To build something, to do something, to make a creation, to take an action, and that action is Karma Yoga. Karma, yoga. By doing the thing, you face all of the bad habits and addictions of the self. There's the obscurations of attention, there's the attachments of mind, and you move beyond them until you find that there's more. And then you move beyond that and that's a constant practice constantly polishing the mirror, cleaning the mirror of consciousness, the reflection, the understanding, your awareness of life. EJ's teaching was a testament of Karma Yoga. It is when you do Karma Yoga, you gain insight, you gain wisdom, and you gain love. You gain those spiritual qualities that he shared and taught about by doing Karma Yoga. So, we're in a very auspicious, fortunate situation where we are practitioners anything that you do in yoga, you will have hard times. You know, half of what EJ was talking about was the hardships, the difficulties. You will experience every difficulty, but you will be stronger, more empowered, elevated and more enlightened because of the difficulty. That is what karma yoga is. that Jaya expressed in his teaching is the outcome of this practice. It's like martial arts. If you come to my martial arts dojo and I teach you katas, I teach you katas, forms. There's this hand shirt on, this thing, you're all hmm hmm hmm hmm. There's things that you do. And when you do them, it's hard to do.

0:48:34
It's difficult.

0:48:35
You've got to get it right. You know, you've got to learn the stances. You've got to get the power and everything. There's so many aspects to the kata training. Not just that you're making dance moves, but training kata is forms that work in a real fight. And then when you do it, you practice it enough, then there's an awakening in you of power that, oh, if somebody actually attacked me, I could do this to block. It eventually comes through. At first it's movement and trying, and a lot of doubt, and a lot of boredom, and a lot of, it's hard for me to get to the dojo, but if you just keep going, that power arises. That power arises. Just a personal story. I was working on going into my first MMA fight tournament and I was like, well, let me, you know, I've been a martial artist for a long time and I'm very into it, so let me try this new thing that everyone's doing called MMA, which you guys all know now. But you don't know it? Mixed martial arts. It's the UFC, the octagon kind of thing. And it's like horrible. Don't do it. But I was a young, strong martial artist and I was interested. Even with this, in my jujitsu dojo I had this one teacher who came in just to do boxing classes. So we were doing jujitsu, wrist locks and a little bit of wrestling. And then this guy rented out the space and did some boxing classes. But he was the 92 middleweight champ. And his name was Doug DeWitt. And I was at that time interested in MMA. And he said, oh I watched some of that stuff. I was like, so the big problem is that those guys wrestle too much, which is a big joke if you know MMA. And he said, so the thing is that you can't go down, you have to punch him. And one of the big things they do is they go and they try to wrestle you down. And he's like, you gotta punch. And I was like, okay, I'll work on that. And so he taught me this thing, which was, you're in your fighting stance, you drop, and you uppercut. So whenever the person who's a good grappler, wrestler, they try to take you down, you drop and uppercut, drop and uppercut. And I said, you know, in Jiu-Jitsu we have this much more effective technique of dealing with it, but I was training with him, so I had bought a certain amount of personal one-on-one training and that's all he had me do. I said, no I need to learn different things from you. He's like, no this is what you need to learn. And then I kept doing it, kept doing it, and after a while I was like, hey maybe this will work. And then when I went into my atonement, there was this one up-and-coming guy who I had fought, Enzo Gracie. And he was a great wrestler, grappler. He was a Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu guy. And he came and he shot for me. I squatted down and I did what Doug DeWitt taught me. And I was like, boom, and I hit him. And it just, you know, like, knocked up crazy. And I was like, wow, these weird things work. The weird things about martial arts is, if you do these weird practices, these weird things work. They create effects. So in martial arts, you practice a kata, and that kata gives you a kind of power. And I could sit there in Scarsdale, New York, with the heavyweight, the middleweight champ from 92, Doug DeWitt, and he can show me this weird thing that will work in Atlanta, Georgia, against a grappler, a totally different fight. So what I'm saying is the powers of martial arts, they are powers that you might learn from just doing funny exercises, but you do them the best you can, the powers of yoga when you just practice yoga. Just the basics. Everything in the job yoga book, if you just practice it, if you put that into your mindset, into your job or your business, you'll see that it works. You can take job yoga and be a job yogi, like really strong and you could be put in Beijing, you could be put in London, you could be put in New York or Hawaii and all these things bring powerful results. I don't care what fight you got to go into, if you've got the training, then a power comes through you. If you have the training, a power comes through you. Anywhere in the world, anywhere in the universe. So, Yoga is mastering yourself through action. If you come to my martial arts class, it will be physical movements where you master that action. If it's your computer programmer, it's that you're doing that tech to master that action. That's like Parvati. Or if it's sales, so you build that wonderful thing, but then can you sell it? And that's where EJS sells. And then if you need to lead that company to success, to find all those opportunities, to manage the whole organization. That's Dharma. That's Apati. Apati was a very successful yoga. And Ijeya and like everyone in Apati, to go through a tremendous amount of difficulty and work. All their bad habits came up. All their addictions came up. And they moved through them. It was not easy. But they moved through them. And that's what we do in yoga. In yoga we go beyond. Yoga is the wonderful place where you can put your attention into a special project. It has to be a special project, it's just the self. When it's a special project, a spiritual project, you go beyond the self into a different condition, and you let go of the self and you do something other than the self and create impeccability

0:57:56
there. That's what yoga is.

0:58:01
If you do whatever you want to do, you're like, you know what, I'm an artist and this is my life's work. And so I'm going to, you know, paint things and make clay, play-doh, no, not clay, play-doh sculptures. If that's where you're coming from, it's with an ego. is when you join a karate dojo, you don't know nothing, and you join that dojo. And that dojo shows you some power that you have never seen before. You don't know nothing. That's important. When you come into enlightenment, if you come with your bowl full. Your cup is full. You don't know nothing because you're full. You're full of it. You're full of self. You have to become empty. Empty. If you walk into a, and that's why I like martial arts, walk into a martial arts dojo, you're a white belt, you don't know nothing. You can't come in with this big attitude. I know everything. I'm better than you.

0:59:17
In a karate dojo, you will get corrected quickly. So we have to have a humility to understand that we don't know nothing. And anything that we do is something that we do from the heart. We do from a condition of care, opening, awareness, and that's something that brings us some power. You don't know anything. Develop yourself. You don't know anything. Let go of the self. And when you do that, more and more, that's what creates success in yoga. That's what uplifts you in yoga. Just let go. Let go of the addictions and the bad habits. And do the work. Do what you don't want to do. But if you want to do what you want to do, then you're in the desire and attachment of self.

1:01:00
But when it gets hard,

1:01:02
and everything in this world,

1:01:04
if you want to do a job or business, gets hard, then you have to let go. You have to let go. So, I would like to offer empowerment of letting go.

1:01:38
It's knowing that there's something that you're attached to,

1:01:45
something that you're holding onto, and letting that go, let go so that the spirit within you can ascend. It's letting go of attachment, which is addiction. It's letting go of bad habits, which is obscuration of attention. This empowerment is when you When you know that you want something better and yet you have to do something, you have to do something. Ani Gia had a very good direction. Do yoga. Yoga is a refuge. focus everything in your intention and your life on yoga. And that's something that brings you beyond karma. But this is that power and empowerment, spiritual empowerment that brings you to a point where you can have that energy to direct your attention to yoga away from addictions, away from bad habits. This is an empowerment of yoga. To lift you above karma. Here's the thing about empowerment. This is different from a transmission. An empowerment is a power given to you. And once you have that power, you have the choice of what you do with it. and use it in a way of success in Dharma. It's a very special thing. You know, in Tibetan Buddhism, they have empowerments of all sorts and times and abilities. So it's a blessing. This is an empowerment across time and space. This is an empowerment. So, what I'd like you to do, sit up nice and straight, focus the navel chakra and I'm going to give the yoga empowerment which is Karma Yoga Empowerment. of addictions and bad habits. Okay. Let's begin.

1:05:15
So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. you the the the the So the the the the Thank you. Wonderful! Fantastic. And thank you so much.

1:09:21
Everything is wonderful. All of your work, everything that you do in yoga, even if it's hard, that's the way, that's the path, that's the understanding. We have so many successful yogis who've went through the greatest difficulties and tribulations, and they've done it, and they've succeeded, and they've become successful. So this is the work. It's more than just, you know, like some spiritual school. It's a martial arts school where you develop rank by rank. And it happens. And it's something that works. It's like a martial arts dojo. We learn technique, we develop ourselves, and then after you develop yourself, just through technique, wisdom and power comes. And then if you're in some situation later on where someone is harming your life or the life of another, you have the power from your dojo to stop addiction, stop bad habits. Dojos are all about good habits. You walk into a karate dojo, it's all about good energy.

1:11:30
Good energy, save life, be strong, be healthy.

1:11:39
That's the same thing here.

1:11:40
This is an enlightenment dojo, Buddha dojo. It's not about,

1:11:45
I don't know, whatever, weird things. It's solid.

1:11:49
And it's solid in people's experience.

1:11:52
And we have many yogis who have been successful. It took them a while, but they hung in there, they have no faith. But they are strong, like Ijeya. Ijeya's teaching is strong. a reality from his experience in the teachings of the Buddha.

1:12:22
Teachings of the Buddha are good teachings, but if you do them, they create enlightenment. Teachings of a great karate master— you can read about it, but if you do it, it makes you a great fighter. So this empowerment is an empowerment to lift you up, to bring you up. And that is the greatest support in yoga.

1:13:31
to the essence of awareness. to the essence of awareness.

1:13:41
Anyway, so thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
