0:00:00
Hello everyone.

0:00:03
All right. So we are getting closer to the Enlightenment class, which is going to be...

0:00:16
What day is it?

0:00:17
Do you guys remember?

0:00:18
Somewhere in the middle of June.

0:00:19
12th of June. So we're getting closer to that. And you guys are moving along well. So already there's been karmas that have stopped you and kind of snagged you in the past that you're pushing through now. So it's good. However, it is time for you to face your crap, your samskaras. So this has been coming up where people are facing kind of their deepest karmas, the really, really, really big things. You can't go along and then get into some anger rage and then get over it and then keep going. Because then if you don't deal with that, then it'll just be a karma that comes up again. Or if you have a fear, can't go along, experience a fear, run away from it, and then go, shoo, and pass it. Because it will come up again. So, it's important that you start to focus on what your deepest karmas are, and start to look at them. So, what you have to do is you have to be very, very aware of what they are. And a really good thing to do is to write out on paper, you know, I have this fear or I have this anger and here's what it is. You know, I've experienced it in this way, this way, and this way, and here's what it is to me. To be able to write it out in detail of what the feelings are and what the results are, it's really helpful because it makes it very, very clear. It draws it out and puts it in front of you. And you have to completely understand your karma. You can't just go, yeah, there's this fear, I don't know what happens, and then go, oh, I don't... You have to face it, or whatever it is, if it's desire, you have to say, this is the thing, I just go into these crazy desire thoughts, and here's what it does to my attention, and here's what it's done in the past, and here's how it feels and how it messes me up. You have to know your karmas, just like in the art of war, know your enemy. To know your enemy, you have to really, really look at it, know it, face it. But then you have to have the resolve to go beyond it. You have to say, I'm not going to do this anymore. I'm going past it. And this is where it comes down to, you know, do you want karma or do you want enlightenment? Because if you don't face these things and have the resolve to move beyond them, then you'll get stuck in karma. If you can get un-stuck from these things, then enlightenment comes pretty easily. But if you're just going to sit there and go through your karmas and you do it, you just go, you know, do the karma all the time, then at this point it becomes a choice. You're choosing either to identify with karma or you're choosing to let go of karma so that you can be enlightened. But if you say, well yeah, I just get angry and that's the way it is, then you're going to stay in karma. But if you say, no, I've had enough of this suffering, I've had enough of this karma, and I'm going to really look at it, understand it, face it, and I'm going to go through it, you can elevate yourself so that karma doesn't get you anymore. You're fully empowered from the Kala Chakra to do that. And that's one of the things that the Kala Chakra does. It has this upward momentum. It like, you float up and then the karmas are down here going, hey I'd like to get you. But that's what the Kala Chakra does. It really lifts you. But you have to, you know, you have to follow that lift. You can't self-identify down to those karmas anymore, because if you do, then you won't be enlightened, you'll just be down in the karmas. So this is a very, very important time. And really, to stay on schedule, you should deal with your samskaras in a ten day period. I'm on a schedule here, you know, with your enlightenment. Because I've got other things to show you after that. All in preparation for this class. So, but this is a very, very important one. A very, very serious one. It's not a very fun thing to look at your fears and desires and angers and depressions, right? It's not fun to do, but if you don't look at it and, you know, breathe some bodhichitta into it, somehow resolve to go past it, you have to. This is like, you know, where shit gets real, right? Like, you have to face it and move beyond it. And if you can't move beyond your karmas, it's not that you can't, it's that you don't want to.

0:06:36
So, this becomes a choice.

0:06:38
And it's very important for you to resolve to, no matter what, go past your karmas. No matter what. This is where you have to be ruthless. Yeah, very important. You have to do this now. And it's not, yeah, it's not the hardest thing in the world, but it's a thing. So, I remember when I was facing this, I was moving along the path and you know, around the same stage that you guys are at and I just kept having a fear, some kind of like cosmic fear. And I did it, and it was really good. So I remember, I've probably told this story to you guys before, but I was sitting down to meditate, and then every time I was getting still, in my mind I would be standing on the edge of that cliff in Zion. And I was at the edge of the cliff and I was like afraid of falling off. I was like, Oh my gosh! I'm going to fall off and die! And then I would feel that fear in my meditation and it would stop my meditation. And then Kundalini and having dinner with her in Mandala and I was like, so yeah, Kundalini, I have this fear, like it's this totally intense, ultimate fear, standing in front of the chasm of, you know, Zion and what do I do? And she's all, oh yeah, jump in. And I'm like, what? And she's all, yeah, yeah, when you feel that fear and you're on that edge, jump. And I'm like, but, then I die. And she's all, yeah. She's all, yeah, just do it. And I was like, okay. So then while I was sitting there, like 30 seconds after she said that, I brought to mind that fear. And sitting there at that table, all of a sudden, even though there was the physical world in front of me, I was, my awareness was standing on the edge of that cliff in Zion. And then I was like, I felt that tremendous cosmic ultimate fear and I was like, I let something go and I was like, I'm going to move past it. And my way of moving past it was I jumped. And that was all. It was intense. No longer fearful. It was intense when I jumped. And then I fell, and then disappeared. I disappeared without falling. And when I disappeared, I went into some kind of stillness. And then I was back standing at the top of the cliff, looking out over the canyon, and I felt that immensity, but I had no fear at all. And I was like, okay. So I resolved this thing and then then looking at me she's like whoa she's like you're like glowing a cold light and I was like really I thought that was That was me overcoming my last samskara. Now samskaras, I'll have more to say about them, but the most important thing is that

0:11:01
you have to overcome it.

0:11:02
You have to resolve to do it no matter what. No matter what. And you have to face it now. Now is the time. Know it. You have to know every detail about it. So writing it down is good, or if you just already know, you know. And then you have to face it. This is the most important thing. If you do this, it's easy. Because my enlightenment came, I don't know, maybe a month after that. So once you let go of this, this is the place where in the Kala Chakra you get that flow and you let go, and you're above karma at that point. And then enlightenment starts to just really... it's going to come. It happens after that point. But if you don't let go of your karmas, at this point it's up to you to let go of your karmas. You've got the empowerment, you know, you have the flow of energy, all the dharma is there, it's just that it's your job to let go and then automatically it will rise up. So this is a very, very important matter and it's something to address completely now.

0:12:26
Okay, cool.

0:12:28
Now, I devised another way to help you. Teaching. Teaching has a tremendous enlightening power. And I'd like you to teach more. So, some of you, you know, you taught a class, you know, you recorded it. Look, watch your recording, look at it and say, you know, did I do it really well? Did I do it impeccably? And the Teaching Council is also looking at these things and they're coming up with some guidelines. Like, if you're reading things, it's kind of weird. You know, like if you're gonna read a quote, well, let me read a quote from something and then you look to the side and read it, that's okay. But if you're like sitting there talking, you're like, so I'd like to tell you about enlightenment. Enlightenment is a really good thing. Then it creates a weird thing. So maybe refine your teaching. Refine your teaching and go over it again and do it over and make it better. So study the thing that you taught and write down notes about, oh here I'm going like this or something like that. Like, look at yourself and see what you're doing and try to refine it. That is very powerful, very powerful.

0:14:09
So, the teaching council will send out

0:14:12
some guidelines as well. Also, we have to be very aware of our background, our lighting, and our clothing. So like some people wear Asian clothing like me, and it doesn't look right. It's all like, it can irk people. It makes people go, wow, that's cultural appropriation. Right, some white guy is wearing, you know, an Indian shirt, and then they get mad about it. So now I can do it, because somehow it works for me.

0:14:53
It does.

0:14:54
People are like, they see me and they're like, yeah, I'm sure. But if I was to dress like this, it's like, there's this white guy

0:15:05
who's all trying to be Asian-y.

0:15:07
You know, it comes off that way. So, think about how you dress. For example, like Dharma, right? He's wearing this Asian shirt, but it's like hip, kind of Asian-y. It's not traditional, it's more, you know, spiritual fluid. So, yeah, so consider the way that you dress. It's very important. Sometimes wearing a jacket and a collared shirt is a really beautiful way to talk. You gotta really say, what am I bringing across here? If you're bringing across, you know, put on monk's robes, and yet you have like, you know, Rama blonde hair or something like that.

0:16:05
And they're like, what's going on with this? I don't understand.

0:16:08
Why does this monk have hair? You know, things like that. So, the teaching council is looking at what's been recorded before, and we'll be giving more guidelines and feedback about background, lighting, you know, how much of you are on camera. Because if you're like this on camera.

0:16:31
You go, hey!

0:16:32
Hey!

0:16:32
Hey!

0:16:33
Hey! Hey! Hey!

0:16:36
Hey!

0:16:37
Yeah, so you want to have, like we're refining things about presentation and everything and we're still refining things in our setup. It's much better. For a while there, I'm like, you're killing me!

0:16:55
I'm doing the Dharma, and you're killing me.

0:16:57
You're killing me!

0:16:58
You're killing me!

0:16:59
You're killing me!

0:17:00
You're killing me!

0:17:00
You're killing me!

0:17:01
You're killing me!

0:17:02
You're killing me!

0:17:03
You're killing me!

0:17:04
So anyway, so refining the things in the Buddha dojo is good, and doing that is very, very powerful and positive for your enlightenment. I devised another thing. I devised it. I would like to do a panel for each satsang. So we take Buddhist mysticism, Java yoga, and Bodhicitta, new ones I'm doing, the free classes, right? So I'd like to take those Satsangs and have three teachers do a panel. And that is where the three teachers will go on a Zoom call and we'll say, all right, so you know we're job yoga, fearlessness. And we're going to talk about three subjects, and each of us will have a point to talk about on the subject. So if Tara, Devika, and Dharma are going to do that, they'll say, okay, they watched it, and then they say, hey, what are the three main points that we want to talk about? And then they'll come to consensus on the three main points. And then they'll do a call and say, all right, so we'd like to talk about this chapter in this teaching. And we're going to talk about these three things. Now, the first thing is this. And here's what I think about it. And Vivica, what do you think?

0:18:46
Oh, OK. Oh, Tara, what do you think? She goes, I don't think.

0:18:51
Perfect.

0:18:52
So, very simple structure.

0:18:57
Watch it, come up to consensus on three things to talk about, and each person will have a point that they want to make, the reflection about that thing. Could be, yeah, from my experience I learned this. Let me tell you a story of how I experienced that. You guys know how to teach. So just teach. So this would be very, very, very, very, very good. Because it gives you more opportunity to teach. When you're teaching, it's very, very powerful. It's very helpful for your enlightenment. When you start teaching, you're sitting there, you're teaching, and if you do the job and you're just out of the way, you're just presenting the materials, you just follow the way that you're taught to teach, then a lot of light comes through you. So teaching is very powerful. It'll help with your sanskaras tremendously. That's why I want you to focus on this now. So with teaching, it's a simple structure. What we'll do is we'll come up with this spreadsheet will list out all the satsangs. And then people can just sign up. Say, I want to do this one and this one. At least do one. And then you can start working on it. It's very, very, very, very, very helpful. Teaching outside of the Buddha Dojo is fine too, like if you want to do intro classes, that's powerful, very powerful. But teaching in this structure is more powerful. So I would say, you know, intro teaching is very, very good, but teaching in the Buddha Dojo and teaching through these structures are very, very good. So then let's say there's a brand new student and they come to the free class, they go, wow, I'm going to the free class. And then they also have the Enlightenment workbook class. And then they have this panel. And they're like, wow, this is really cool stuff. It's like they have more, they're getting more teaching, exactly, on the mystic path, what we used to call the master track, then they have the free stuff. They've already completed the Enlightenment Workbook, and then they have the Buddhist mysticism, japa, compassion courses, and then from those courses they're also getting the

0:21:57
Pound.

0:21:58
And this is like, it gives them more teachings on the subject. And then they also have a teacher's teaching. More teachings! More teachings! So all of these teachings support the dharma and the structure of the courses, and it's very powerful to do it. It adds a lot more teaching, a lot more support, it will change people's lives. So it's good to do for them. It is powerful in the Buddha Dojo. But by focusing on this and doing this, and don't stress out about it, it's not that big of a deal. Say, alright, three of us are going to do this thing. Watch the video, make some notes, and then go, I think these three are important. Oh yeah, Tara also had that one. But this one, we disagree, I'll go with what you think. Then you say, what are my thoughts? I just wanna have a little insight, a little story, or a little experience I wanna share about each one of those things.

0:23:09
Three things.

0:23:09
So then you don't have to stress out or like spend forever like it should it should be watch the teaching and then spend a half hour or an hour reflecting on it and then and then you just get up and sit there get out of the way and just teach and when you do that then the light comes out of you you enter the light and and it is extremely helpful for transcending your karmas. That's why I'm talking to you about it now. Okay, super. So, you know, this is something that we want to really focus on in the next 10 days. Really, like, know your karmas, your difficulties, bring them to mind, face them completely, have that intent to say, ravage me with my fear or whatever, and then have a really like consider that ruthlessness that you need to be free from it, you can't go back into it, you have to let go of that karma. And then, if that's difficult, teach. Teach about that subject. So if it's something like fear or desire, in a lot of my teachings I bring up fear and desire. So you go, oh yeah, there's that teaching, there's one called fear, there's one called

0:24:46
desire.

0:24:47
And you really go into that and let that be a way that you let go of that karma by teaching the Dharma. Okay, that's all I've got to say.

0:24:58
Thank you. Thank you.

0:24:59
See you again.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
