0:00:00
So, Hawaii is magical and powerful. It's totally not necessary at all to move there. Living wonderful. I got back into the Dharma Villa and just to smell the valley there, the San Pedro Valley, I was like, oh my God, I love it. And then the strong tonal of the Bay Area, the mainland, it's really good. So, if you're in balance here and you're happy here, be here. If you're really, really drawn to live in Hawaii, then you can live in Hawaii. But I'm going to be coming here every quarter and I'm just so happy to meet everyone here. Just wonderfully happy. So I'm going to get into the enlightenment teaching. The enlightenment teaching. The first enlightenment teaching was really good, but then it was like very aspirational. Some people really got into it, they followed it, and they just said, wow, okay, boom, I

0:01:51
was enlightened.

0:01:52
But, and that's cool.

0:01:53
Now, if you didn't become enlightened, there's nothing wrong with you. There's nothing wrong. It's not that it didn't work. It's not that something bad happened. It's just that it's a good teaching. This happened with the Buddha a lot. I love the Buddha's teachings. If you read the Middle-Late discourses of the Buddha, he'll be like, I had this teaching, I taught this thing, and then three guys became arhats. And then there was maybe a thousand other guys there, guys and gals. And it's like, well, should they feel bad about themselves? No. Actually, they're uplifted because enlightenment is radically happening in the teaching. So if you didn't become enlightened at the one enlightenment teaching, then don't think something's wrong, don't think that you're bad, don't think that it's impossible. That was a definite, defining moment. And then, guess what? We have the next moment. It's a definite, defining moment. The next moment is your moment of enlightenment. So, don't think that you're at a loss, or that it's impossible. It's definitely not impossible. And the fact that it happened for some people, it actually builds a momentum so that it can happen for you. You just need to like, you know, like, be open, have a good attitude. And then when you see the energy of the enlightened arhants, it actually is something that makes you guys brighter. Now I remember the story of the Buddha where, I think it was his 14th arhant, he's like, you did it. He pointed it out in front of like 2,000 monks. And then there was a group of monks who knew him well before his enlightenment and then they were like, what? They're all Steve got the enlightenment merit badge? They're all Steve's an asshole. We were just having dinner with Steve and we can't think of all these problems with Steve. And then they're like, and then Buddha says he's enlightened. And they were like, no, I just had dinner with Steve's asshole. And then they're like, Hey, Steve's still an asshole.

0:05:17
We still don't like him.

0:05:18
No, this is what happens. Because people have their egos and their agendas, and they're also guru-worshipping. Steve doesn't have the same haircut as Buddha. Wait, he does. Steve doesn't have the same robe as Buddha. Wait, he does. How? They all look the same. But anyway, you know, there's another enlightened person who looks different, which is the big funny thing amongst the ST1s. So You are enlightened. You're not Buddha. You don't have to be Buddha.

0:06:25
You are enlightened.

0:06:27
Enlightenment is within you.

0:06:29
So the powerful and wonderful teaching in Hawaii was, it was a spark of magic, of enlightened perfection to know your Buddha nature. And you knew your Buddha nature. It awakened in you. It was for real. And it was beautiful. But in all of you, your enlightenment opened.

0:07:44
It opened beyond the self.

0:07:48
It opened. And it was so wonderful. This is what I call the enlightenment cycle. Even though you might have difficult ideas, hard karmas, you're still struggling with

0:08:20
all sorts of things. In a way, when we did that teaching, light opened in you. And many people became awakened because of that light. But that light didn't go away. So we were like, okay, we're very, we did this thing, we came up to this point, we did it. And did it happen or did it not? Because at that time, and then I thought thoughts, and then I was like, struggling, I'm bothered. to enlightenment. And we all experienced enlightenment. We were all there together. No matter what, no matter if you thought, you were thinking, or bothered, or resisting, or saying, no, I can't be it, or something like that, in that meditation, that is enlightenment. You can't exclude that, you have to embrace that. the greatest moment, because everyone there was shining with the light of enlightenment. That enters the enlightenment cycle.

0:10:45
It doesn't mean enlightenment right away, but it's close to what Buddha used to say

0:10:49
as a stream-winner. It's like, once you get that, it's going to happen. It's going to happen. You're going to get the Arhat. And I saw that 100%. We were all in this wonderful movement of enlightenment. The grace of graces. But also think what it takes to get there. You've done so many years of meditation, and especially so many years of yoga, of totally giving yourself to something. Totally giving yourself to roommates, to yogas, to the yoga teacher. examples of the great yogi of Tibet, Malarapa. If I said to you, hey guys, we've got to build a tower over here. We would all do it. I would do it too. And then I say, wait, wait, not over here, over there. Then we would do that too. And you know, that's what I keep doing. There has to be that movement, that shift. Otherwise life gets totally clogged and stuck. So when I say this is going to be a Euro mission, when I say everything goes to Hawaii, all of those things are true. But it breaks the self. You have to stay fluid. And you are all fluid and strong like Milarepa. I think you guys are great yogis. So Buddha had this wonderful teaching. He said the self is as significant on the foam of a wave in the middle of the ocean. This brings us into what I call the second teaching of enlightenment.

0:13:52
We respect all of the amazing

0:13:59
teachings of enlightenment. And now we come to a place where, well maybe I'm not enlightened, but I'm not giving up. And now this teaching shows me another way. Just like the Bardo-Fadal. At first when you die, the Dharmakaya, enlightenment is right there. Your enlightenment is right there. And then you go, I don't like it so much.

0:14:40
I have a different opinion.

0:14:42
And then you go, whoosh.

0:14:44
And then you get the next teaching of enlightenment. But it is equally as strong. And the Bharata Tala is teachings of enlightenment, all after every stage that you're in. If you screw up, you never screw up.

0:15:07
There's always enlightenment.

0:15:08
It's like, first it's easy, then it's there, then it's there, then you want to do that? You've got to go through some stuff, and then it's there. Enlightenment is in every point and every aspect of everyone's life, even someone who's addicted to meth and amphetamines, crack cocaine or heroin, or anyone that you murder. Enlightenment is always available. You can be enlightened at any time. There's always a way up. Buddha himself talked about how he did horrible things, and he went to hell, and then became a Buddha. So, don't think that if you suck, or if you're bad, or if you're limited, that you can't be enlightened. You CAN be enlightened. So the little bubble on the wave that Bupa talks about, that's not, it's just very transient, but that's what we put all of our heart and mind into and think that that's real. So in this moment, we think a little bubble is real, and that is all that there is. And it's so limited, because that little bubble is so small compared to the wave of foam that it's on. Even the foam is bigger, and the wave is even bigger, and the ocean.

0:17:17
Look at the ocean.

0:17:18
Everyone take a look. Look at the ocean. The ocean is great. And Buddha says, the self that you think you are, is that little self. Little self. Not very real. It's going to probably pop in like 30 seconds. Like an incarnation. And it's limited. Just like the limited definitions of our life. Think about your definitions. I am a man. I have a job. I do this. I do that. I have relationship. I am brother or son. I have wife or something. When you think through these things, these become very concrete in that limited little bubble view and then all you know is that view and then what is What are we we're offered? through Yanni, yoga Who am I? Am I that job? Am I that daughter of that father? You know am I This person who's angry? Am I this person who's sad? And when it comes down to it, you have to ask yourself those questions until you get extremely bored. You have to get to an essential boredness of yourself. God damn it. You can ask those questions over and over. Am I this thought? Am I this job? Am I this sister? Am I this brother? Or whatever. You can ask all that stuff and all that does eventually is it bores the shit out of you. I mean if you're like something, maybe then you go beyond it, but mostly you get to this place where you're like, I'm totally bored. I've had enough. Like, seriously, do I have to do this again? You want me to ask who am I again? Do you know how many times I've asked who am I? I'm bored of asking who am I thing goes on forever. And you gotta get to the place where you're like, I'm gonna go, I'll do this for eternity. I'll ask this question and get an answer. It will always come from the self. It will always show me something. And then I'm done. And it's boring. And it's boring! More than painful, it's boring! You've got to get bored. Because if you do ego cherishing, well, I still like this idea. Then I say, fuck you! You need to get bored by yourself. You need to get bored at all the graspings and conjurings of self. I'm going to be like so special. I really believe this is true. Fuck you. Are you kidding me? I really believe this is real. Nothing's real. I really attach my ego to a belief and I make it spiritual and then I grab onto it more. I'm all like, do you have to give that up. You have to stop that. You have to realize that As boring as politics. So we can see that a lot of politicians, they will promote their opinion and their idea. Not that it's true, but they will push everything in their personal power so that they can get elected and be in power through an opinion. Then you say, is that true? They don't care if it's true. They say, I don't care if it's true. They go, it's not true. It's what I say. And that's what I want. And when you see politicians push away from what's true and just make all these arguments of something that They want so that it pushes them into some power Then we're gonna have a world go upside down Which we've been having happen

0:23:02
You have to

0:23:04
Over concept Open to truth. You have to sacrifice the self for truth. And there's nowhere. You don't need to go anywhere else. Enlightenment is here right now. What is stopping you from enlightenment? There's a powerful remedy for self. There's a powerful teaching for self. But if you disagree, if you're still holding on to something, if there's something in your attention, that grips you and draws you back into an opinion, into duality, into not seeing the truth, within the self. There's a way through this. It is to sacrifice the self. You don't have to be somewhere in Tibet, or somewhere in India, you have to be right here, right now. Enlightenment is here within you. And there's a way. It's the teaching.

0:25:30
This is the other teaching.

0:25:31
It's called neti neti. Not this, and not even this. Not this, not that. Not this, not the other. Nothing, nothing, nothing. Not this. It's not this. What is this? Not this. It's like black pink. You You guys know Blackpink?

0:25:49
It's like, how do you like that?

0:25:53
Yeah, I'm a big fan, actually, of K-pop. I really like it. I like all... Oh my goodness. Koreans can dance. Back in the 90s, Asians could not dance. Not at all. 2000? How do neti neti not this

0:26:44
not this not this not that

0:26:47
not this not the other

0:26:49
neti neti not this

0:26:53
and with this teaching comes a mantra and the mantra is

0:27:01
in english not this

0:27:04
unless you speak another language. So if you're Hungarian, not this in Hungarian. How do you say that in Hungarian? Nemez? Yeah. So Nemez might be more powerful because it's your normal language. So neti neti, well, neti neti. For an American, forget it. For an American, you have to say, not this. It is powerful. And if you're Hungarian and Nemez is powerful, say Nemez. Or wherever you're from. Do whatever you got to do. Not this, it's powerful. And in Hungarian, if you say nem ez, if that's more powerful, then I would say do that. So, this is a mantra. And what you do is, any time that you see in your mind, the self starts to attach to a view of a limited awareness, you say, not this. And it breaks it. It's a mantra. So that little bubble on the foam, on a wave in the ocean, is so limited and is so limited with definitions of self that if you keep asking, who am I, who am I, you'll be so bored to the point where you have to say, just no, not this, just drop it all. And you say, but the air in that little bubble, that is me. The air is my essence. The air is who I am, a special thing of me and it's different because it's in my little bubble. And then we say, you know, we're going to break that bubble and when that bubble breaks, the air in that bubble is no different than all of the air. And that's the truth. to this self because we think it's precious and it is. The light that we cling to, it's precious, it's wonderful, that's who you are, that's amazing. But if you let that bubble burst then it unites with everything else. And you're right that there's something special in you, but you're wrong to hold that little teeny part back from the greater everything. Let your bubble burst. Once you say, I'm so bored of myself, I'm not this, I'm not this, I'm not this, and I don't even want to go through it all, I just need to drop it. Then that bubble bursts, and that beautiful consciousness that you've always held so tender connects with the universe. It is one with the universe, and that's who you are. That little special thing you're trying to defend, once you let down your defenses, it goes into a beautiful condition of unity and that is not something to be afraid of, it's something to open to for sure. Whatever something comes up in your mind, fear, a doubt, a thought, a self, not So I'd like to sit with you for just a few minutes in this awareness where the self is gone. It's not this. And let the wind blow the self away. when anything comes up and let yourself wash away.

0:32:45
Let's see. I'm going to do a little bit of a deep breath in and out. Deep breath in. Deep breath out. Deep breath in. Deep breath out. Deep breath in. Deep breath out. Deep breath in. I'm going to do a little bit of a walk around the area. I'm going to walk around the area. I'm going to walk around the area. I'm going to walk around the area. I'm going to walk around the area. I'm going to walk around the area. I'm going to walk around the area. I'm going to go ahead and get started. Alright, very nice. I find this very beautiful. So tomorrow, so we're going to come here early. And tomorrow I will do additional Shonon teachings. Shodan teachings and also the I'll continue with the advanced enlightenment teaching. And then the other guys will come and we'll do some wonderful things with them as well. But what time is it now? Really? It's 8 o'clock and the sun hasn't set. I don't need to come that early. I came, it was so hot.

0:35:33
Day 30.

0:35:35
It's really nice.

0:35:37
Alright, tomorrow, let's meet right here at this spot at 5.30. I'll sit at 4.30. And then they come at 6.30, and then if I need to meet with you.

0:37:16
Thank you for setting up this really good... Do we have a recording of this? Yes. We have to hide it from everyone. We're only going into the archives. Going into the archives of the Matrix. We have the special backpack.

0:37:54
Who does not have one of these? So my mother does knitting yoga. So every day she meditates for four hours a day and her meditation is Om Mani Padme Hum. Om Mani Padme Hum. And she's like, oh my gosh, I really like to meditate. She has really high meditation experiences. And she's made some hats. And I'd like to give them to you who do not have them. This is my mother's yoga hat.

0:39:01
I like them.

0:39:02
They're warm.

0:39:03
I was like, oh, I thought I was a bear!

0:39:06
Thank you. Thank you to your mom.

0:39:08
Oh, yeah.

0:39:09
My mother needs no thanks. She just does them as her yoga.

0:39:13
Very wonderful.

0:39:14
This one's suspect. Suspect.

0:39:17
Hello, there.

0:39:18
It's you again!

0:39:19
Oh, it's so good to see you. Look, my mom made a hat for you.

0:39:26
Thank you.

0:39:27
You have a hat?

0:39:30
Yeah, okay. Yeah, so, lots of us have hats because my mom's been making them.

0:39:36
And she's like, she's like, should I, she's like, I have 20 more spools, should I do 20 more hats?

0:39:45
I'm like, yes. I was like, there's at least 100 more people who need a hat. Or their heads get cold, and she's all, I need to get it for them. So, this is suspicious. So, this is suspicious. Alright, wonderful. Thank you all so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
