0:00:00
Hello.

0:00:01
All right, we're going to begin with meditation. We'll focus on the heart for one song. So sit up nice and straight. Let's begin.

0:00:19
so So So so so so so the the the so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, All right, wonderful. So today I'd like to talk about self-realization.

0:04:29
Self-realization is the goal of spiritual practice. It is to know yourself completely, fully, to know your eternal nature, to heal of any past wounds, to be free of suffering, to be free of any kind of modality of limited thought, concept. It's to fully understand. It's spiritual awakening. So, we seek to be free. Free of suffering. We seek to be free of mental modifications of understanding life in conceptual ways. To know life truly. To know ourselves truly. This is Self-Realization. So we find self-realization through meditation. When we stop thought, we start to see our eternal self. If you just look at your thoughts, you're just looking at reflections of limitation. A thought is limitation. When you have a thought in your head, that's one thing, one little thing. When you can stop thought, there's everything else. So, meditation is the essential practice where we come to Self-Realization. Now, Self-Realization is not egotism. So, we're like, okay, I'm learning Buddhism. And what starts to happen is the ego starts to say, I want Self-Realization for me! And this is something that becomes the spiritual ego. Self-Realization is not ego. So it's not something that you adorn your ego with. It's something where the ego releases. So once the ego releases, that's self-realization. But if you kind of try to adorn your ego with spiritual stuff, that's not self-realization. The ego is the stupidest person I've ever met. So the ego goes out and gets an IQ test. It comes back and says, I did pretty good. My IQ test came back positive. And then, oh, I also took a COVID-19 test and it came back 74. The ego is silly. The way that someone approaches the spiritual path, the way of the ego, is completely off. And the way that the spiritual path really is, is something that brings you self-realization. So if you come to the spiritual path and you're trying to get something for the self, then you'll completely miss it. You'll miss Self-Realization. There was a young monk who joins a Zen monastery and he comes to the Zen master and he's like, I'm so excited. I want Self-Realization. I want to know eternity. I want enlightenment. What do I do? And then the Zen master says, clean the toilets every day. And he's like, clean the toilets every day? And that'll give me eternity? That'll give me self-realization? And he says, if you do it every day. So he starts doing it, cleaning the toilets, cleaning the toilets, and he says, Master, you know, after days and days and days, and he's like, Master, does this give me eternity like well keep doing it eventually You'll stop wanting eternity so This is the way that the ego comes at things. It's like I need to accomplish I need to get and And and that's all wrong. It's all confused It is actually letting go of desire letting go of ideas. So when we seek self-realization, we seek simply to know, to let go. See, when we can let go, we come into a great wisdom. But if we're in our heads, in our desires, in our thoughts, in our concepts, we're always in the self and there's always limitation in that. So we seek wisdom over knowledge. Wisdom comes from meditation. Wisdom comes from letting go. Wisdom comes from experience. So we seek this thing that in Sanskrit they call it Atmanjana. It is the knowledge of self, but not just intellectual knowledge. It is the wisdom of So I remember a martial artist once, we were getting together to do a practice and I had never met him before, but we were talking while we were getting ready. And he was talking a lot. He's like, he knew, he was talking about so many techniques and all these technical things. He was so knowledgeable. He knew, you know, all of the Japanese terms for everything and he was just like an encyclopedia of martial arts. I was like wow this guy knows a lot and he's just talking about all this stuff really eloquently, very interesting, it was amazing. I was like whoa and then we got up to spar each other and the guy didn't know how to fight. It was very easy to beat him. I was like well he can talk a lot but he doesn't know how to put it together. So in martial arts, a wisdom comes from training. If you train, if you practice, then a power grows in you, an awareness expands. You gain this ability that is beyond an intellectual thought. You can read everything in a book about martial arts and know everything and not know how to fight. So we seek in meditation to have the profound wisdom of spirit and that's self-realization. When we let go of all these ideas that we have, when we let go of thought, then a beautiful, eternal, bright light opens up and in that light there's eternity and that's Self-Realization. Self-Realization is where we can go beyond blind spots. I remember Alan Greenspan in 2008 or 2009 when there was the Great Recession, they brought him to Congress and said, hey, why did you let this happen? They're like, why did you, like, how could you not see this coming? You messed up, right? Because he was the chairman of the Fed, the Federal Reserve, you know, the bank that's supposed to be in control of all banks of America, right? And they said to him, how did you not see this coming? What was wrong with you? And then he said, I had some blind spots. And he said, you have a mental model of the world. The way that you look at things is not complete. It's a certain idea, but the idea has limitations. But he's talking perfectly out of Buddhist discourse. And he said, from my mental model of the world, everything was perfect and in balance, and it worked for a while, but I did not see this coming. My mental model didn't account for this, and that's why it happened. And Congress was like, hmm, we're not satisfied.

0:13:32
This is not very good.

0:13:34
So there was a student of mine who came from a very poor upbringing and did very poorly in school, and he just grew up thinking, you know, I don't have a strong career. You know, I just, you know, the neighborhood he grew up in was like poor neighborhood. You know, he just thought he had very limited ideas of what he could be and what he can do. And he had a certain mental model, a limited viewpoint. He had many blind spots. But then, he came to satsang with me, meditated with me, and after meditation, after stilling his thoughts, this mental model, it disappears when you stop thought. It goes away when you experience the light. In the transmission teachings, your mental model expands, goes away, and you can see more, more options, more opportunities. So this blind spot, you know, like, where's enlightenment? Oh, it's right there. That's a blind spot. Like, enlightenment is right here. The light is right here. Self-realization is right here. If you see it, you're like, where is it? Oh, there it is! Right? So this is true. Enlightenment is here. It's just that we have blind spots from our limited attention, our fixed awareness, our karmic outlook. These things limit your awareness and consciousness. And then you look at life in very, very small ways. When you're angry, you look at life in very small ways. When you're attached, you look at life in very small ways. So we So, we want to let go of attachment, we want to let go of anger, let go of desire, and naturally just sit in nature, the natural state of mind, which is not clinging, not grabbing, not running, it's just being. And then the blind spots fall away, and that's meditation. So there was a farmer and he it was his job to bring ten donkeys from one place to another. So he goes to the corral, there's ten donkeys. He goes, count them all. Then he gets on one and he leads the rest. And he's walking, goes for a few miles to a stream, and then he looks back and he counts the donkeys, and he counts nine. He's like, he's riding a donkey, he looks back and goes, yeah there's nine donkeys. He goes, man I must have left one. So he goes back a few miles, and he puts all the donkeys. Gets on one, pulls the other ones back to the same stream, looks back, there's only nine. Goes back to the corral, goes, where's that missing donkey? Puts them all in, and then there's this, some wise man passing by, and he says, okay, this is a wise man, he's gonna definitely count this right. And he says, hey wise man, I'm trying to get these donkeys. But I keep counting 10, then I see nine, then I come back, there's 10. And then how many donkeys do you count? And the wise man says, 11. So blind spots, right? It's true. People make silly, silly mistakes all the time because they have blind spots. You don't perceive correctly. You don't perceive reality correctly. You don't perceive the nature of your being, of your mind correctly when you have blind spots. When we meditate, we're really working on just focus and letting go. If you're like sitting there going, where's my blind spot? I'm going to attack it. There's a blind spot and I'm going to like read something in a book so that I know how to see through it, right? That's not how you do it. To get through the blind spots, you let go of thought, and then the blind spot goes away. So, Self-Realization is coming to your full potential. It is coming to the greatest totality of being. So, it's coming to your Buddha nature, that's what we call it. It is coming to the enlightened nature of your being. That which is already within you, the innate, powerful wonder of eternal awareness. It's already within you. When the blind spots go away, that's what's left. So the self is all of the limitation is that which causes suffering, limitation, and dissatisfaction. But when you come to Self-Realization, you attain your full potential. So, full potential is being able to utilize your mind and your attention to be successful in your work, to be successful in your application of attention to your life. so that you are happy and effective. You have a strong, we call it tonal, a good mind, a good attention that's detail-oriented, balanced, and I noticed, you know, him over the years, he was like, what was that? Could you say that again? And then one day, he got hearing aids. And then he was like, wow, I didn't realize how much I was missing. He spent a couple years losing his hearing, but didn't notice that he was losing it. He was just wondering, why are people talking so quietly? I'm missing information. But then he got hearing aids, and then all of a sudden, he heard everything. And he was like, wow, I was losing information, but then when I had hearing aids, I got all of that information back. So, when you have a limited awareness from blind spots, you miss information. You miss vital information. Information of spirit, information of eternity. You could be sitting there and go, oh everything's so miserable, but if you were able to put your blind spots down and reach your full potential, you could sit there and say, everything's so wonderful. It is so wonderful. Everything's bright. Eternity is everywhere. Luminous consciousness is everywhere. And then you think, wow. So when you're in the shelf, there's limitation, there's blind spots, and you miss vital information. But when there's meditation, blind spots fall away. When there's self-realization, then you perceive everything, everything essential to being, and you see light and brightness and wonder. So there was this other guy who was losing his hearing, and he had this hearing aid, and then he still looked like, hey, I don't, what, what was that? And then his friend says, maybe you need to get new hearing aids. And then he says, no, no, no, no, my hearing aids, what was that? Oh, new hearing aids? No, no, my hearing aids are fine. They work great. And he says, well, how long have you had them? And he's all, about $200. So you want to have the best awareness, not limited awareness. You want to get the hearing aids at work. And the best hearing aid comes from hearing eternity. We hear eternity in meditation. That's where we listen to eternity. That's where we put on our enlightened hearing aids. So meditation is where we go from a limited view to an eternal view. The blind spots go down and we achieve our full potential. So in the practice of job yoga, we gain our full potential. We're bringing meditation into action, and by doing this, our work becomes also very successful. So I remember when I was learning computer programming, so my Buddhist master said, you have to learn spiritual practice through work. And I was like, what? I thought being a monk was all about getting away from work. But no, work. work and so he said learn computer programming and get a Computer programming job on Wall Street. I was like, wow, that sounds

0:25:22
difficult

0:25:23
But I I did it which was a very powerful selfless act when I wanted to be a kung fu teacher and then I I Learned technology and I got a job on Wall Street. And by doing this, I realized that I could function in so much stronger ways than I had before. So I remember when I learned relational database theory, I was building database applications on Wall Street, I started to understand life in a much bigger way. So I remember I was working at a hedge fund and I was sitting there with a hedge fund manager building a system for him. And he was sitting there telling me all the requirements, all of these financial things that I had no idea about, I couldn't understand, I didn't know, I didn't read the book, I didn't go to finance school or anything like that, but I could really understand it through relational database theory. The fact that there are tables and relationships. It was funny, nouns and connections. And I was reading, he would say all these things, and I was using this relational database theory to take it down so that I knew how to develop the tables, the database, and then I would read it back to him, and he was like, wow, you really know what I need. And I was like, I know essentially what you need. And then I said, wow, you know, I understand life a lot more than I used to, just by understanding that life is relative, life is relational. And this is what Buddha taught. Buddha taught that there's this thing called dependent arising. There's connections. Everything occurs because it's related to something else. And we learn this in database theory. Or also in Java, the hierarchical relationships also. So we learn through yoga, especially through, any yoga, but especially through computer programming. We learn this way of understanding life that reaches a higher potential because we can see the bigger picture through our work. And this happens in any work. You could work at a veterinary clinic and you can come to the same understanding if you're doing yoga. When you do yoga as your job, as your work, you come to your full potential. You can have self-realization in any work that you do. If you apply meditation and mindfulness and the application of job yoga structures, if you apply that to your work, you can have self-realization through your work, no matter what work you do. And then you full potential inwardly, but you also come to your full potential in your job. And so you say outwardly, wow, I do my job better. My boss is happy with me. I can get a higher paying job or I can move up in the company. So this is full potential and it's important. So self-realization is also solving problems. So when you're on your merry way to self-realization, meditating and going to work and practicing mindfulness, the funniest thing happens.

0:29:29
Trouble!

0:29:30
So, difficulties arise. It's like, we want everything to be perfect and then something comes up that's not perfect. There's a bothersome person or there's a difficult situation. And self-realization is overcoming obstacles. It is getting past limitations. It's dealing with hardship. It is really seeing that when there's an obstacle, it's not an obstacle. When there's trouble, it's not trouble. Someone who's self-realized doesn't say, oh, there's all these problems, this mean person, it's terrible, it's over. Someone who's self-realized is able to go through all sorts of trouble, all sorts of difficulties, and see things as the pathway to enlightenment, the way to self-realizing. So, self-realization is a higher view. We're like, oh, there's a wall in my way. Someone who is self-realized is above the wall, floating. So you have to really meditate on, just meditate. And when you meditate, even if you have like a hardship, a trouble, a difficulty, in meditation the blind spots fall, you gain greater awareness, full potential, and then you look at the same problem and it goes away. It's not a trouble. So there was a monk meditating in a cave in Tibet. And he's meditating, and he's like, all right, I'm going for self-realization. He's meditating, and then this group of four men from the nearby town, they decide to leave town and sit in front of his cave, because it was a nice view from there, and then drink rice wine. And so they're sitting there drinking, and then they get loud, and they're all laughing and singing and being merry, but he's trying to meditate. He's like, where's my self-realization? And they're making all this noise. And then he's like, hey, hey guys, you're interrupting me. And they go, ha ha ha ha. And they just are noisy, and he can't meditate. So he leaves the cave, and he goes back to his master and says, and his master says, what are you doing? You're supposed to be in that cave, getting self-realized. And then he says, master, I can't because these guys are partying in front of my cave. And then he's like, go back anyway. He's like, they'll leave. So he goes back and eventually, you know, the guys fall asleep and then they go back to work and then they come back again, you know, like a couple days later. And again, drinking, partying, laughing, singing. And he tries to get them to leave, but they laugh and sing and don't. And then he goes back to his master again. His master says, all right, here, I'll solve your problem. His master gives him a gold piece, a silver piece, and a copper piece. And he's like, you're going to pay them to be quiet. And then he says, okay. So he goes back to his cave and they come and they're singing, laughing, it's all jolly. And he says, hey, hey, hey guys, I'm going to give you a gold piece to be quiet. And they say, okay. They take the gold piece and they're like, wow, that's great. So they're singing and playing and everything's great. And then he goes, man, that didn't work, right? And he says, okay, you guys, I'm going to pay you a silver piece to be quiet. They go, okay, they take it, but you guys got to be quiet. So they're quiet, meditating, and then singing and laughing. He's like, I'm going to pay you a copper piece to be quiet. And then they go, okay, they take it. Then he's meditating, they're quiet. And they're singing and laughing. And he's like, ah. And then he goes back to his master and he goes, it didn't work. I tried to pay them. And the master goes, go back to the cave. So he goes back to the cave and they're singing and laughing and he's trying to meditate but he can't. And then finally they get quiet. And he's like, oh, this is nice, maybe it worked. Then they come over, tap him on the shoulder. And then he says, what? And they say, aren't you gonna pay us? And he's like, I don't have any more money. And then they say, well, then we quit. And they go away. And he meditates. So, there are wise ways through every problem. But I think the wisest way is just to sit there. Just meditate. And in meditation, they'll come, and they'll be noisy, but they'll go. That's beautiful. So, when you meditate, you'll see in your mind that thoughts come up, you'll hear noises, dogs barking, babies crying, cars going by, coyotes howling, everything. And you don't react. Just let it go. And that is solving problems. The most important problem to solve is your thoughts and your feelings. When you have thoughts that are troubling or disturbing emotions, meditate. And don't engage with them. Don't try to pay them off. Don't try to solve them. Just meditate. Try to still your thoughts. And then your thoughts will go away, and the troubles go away. The obstacles go away. The difficulty goes away. So I remember I had a student who got very angry at another student. That monk was meditating and it bothered me and now I'm angry at him, for whatever reason, very angry. And then he said, here's how we should solve the problem. You kick him out, you call him names, you do all these bad things to him and I will solve the problem because I'm mad at him. And I listened to all of the things, why he was angry and what the other student did to him, why there was so much trouble. And so he had an action plan, what should happen? And then he said, so, here's the plan, what do you want to do about it? I said, let's meditate. So we sat together, had a beautiful meditation and then afterwards I said, so now what do you think we should do? And he said, nothing. And I said, there, that's right. See, when you're all riled up with thoughts, feelings, and you're caught up in all this drama, you need to meditate, to let go. It solves your problems. The reason you have problems is because you look at things in limited ways. You have blind spots. And you're not using your greatest eternal resources. So, when you meditate, you solve problems. You solve ultimately the problem of the self. The problem of the self is clinging to an idea of self, self-importance, attachment to this cherishing the ego. And when you meditate you let go beautiful. So, Self-Realization is initiated and found by following a teacher, an enlightened teacher. So, you could say, I'm going to Self-Realize myself, right? And sit there and decide, I'm going to meditate and all these things. And it's possible, it's just hard. It's kind of But if you go to the Himalayas and you say, all right, I'm gonna just go to that mountain. There's a mountain, a mountain called Kalpatra. I wanna go to that mountain. And I have a map, I'm gonna go. Well, it's not really easy. If you don't know the terrain, you don't know the roads,

0:38:38
you don't know that at certain times,

0:38:40
even though you see on the map, there's a road there, certain times of the year, there's no road there. And then you might hike for days in one way and come to a place where there's no way around. So then you have to go all the way back and then you say, well, I don't know how to get there. So a Sherpa is someone in the Himalayas who knows the mountains. They know the paths, they know the terrain, they know the weather, they know the way. And if you follow a Sherpa, the Sherpa is someone who can get you there for sure. So an enlightened teacher is someone who knows the way to self-realization. And they can bring you on the path, bring you in the definite, for sure way to self-realization. It's not a way that takes you down for a while and then you find out you can't go past it. A lot of people do this in spirituality. They go, oh I read a book, I'm very interested. I saw a couple of random teachers, I got a meditation app, I watched some guru on YouTube, and then they go wow. They'll go down a certain path, thinking that that's the way to self-realization, only to realize that they were going right into a blind spot. They were following a mental model of limitation and desire into a blind spot. They thought they were going to self-realization, and they were going to limitation. And then people get down. They go, I did some spiritual practice for a while, and then it didn't work out. Didn't like it, got mad or something. So with an enlightened teacher, they bring you to self-realization the real way. If it's the way of the self, it's never going to be self-realization. Self-realization is not realizing the self, it's realizing what's beyond the self. And an enlightened teacher brings you this way. So this is a very, very beautiful path. It's a path that brings you beyond blind spots, beyond mental models, beyond the limitation and frustration and dissatisfaction of the self. And it brings you to success, your full potential, it brings you to enlightened awareness. A lot of times when we think of spiritual practice, the pathway to self-realization, we think that it's no fun. It's nihilistic. It's like nirvana is nothing. So I'm gonna go find nothing. I already found nothing.

0:41:47
I'm still unhappy.

0:41:48
Right, so a lot of times we think spiritual practices, I gotta let go of this and everything's bad. Well, this is like let go of stuff it's unhappy and it's boring but that's not true the spiritual path is super fun and very happy so when you meditate you should meditate on the chakras use the music use the yantra and you should experience light in your meditation when you can let go of thought, let go of distracting ideas and emotions, luminosity, spiritual transcendental light appears, and that light is happy. When you're doing mindfulness and job yoga, you should see that in your work, it gets stronger and happier and brighter and more successful. So in your meditation, it's bright and happy. In your work, your mindfulness, things get bright and happy. In your relationships, things get bright and happy. You know, you got frustration with your dad, your wife, when you learn compassion and mindfulness, things get happier and brighter. When you meditate, the problems with the people go away. So the pathway to self-realization is not, I have to sit around and do stuff I don't want to do. It should be bright and you should love the spiritual path, love all the things that you're doing because it's really fun and great. So it's not letting go. It is letting go, but it's letting go in a great, happy, fun, bright way. It reminds me of a story of a great enlightened teacher, Lahili Mahasaya. So 100 years ago, something like that, in India, he was studying with a mystical, magical teacher named Babaji. And Babaji would just kind of like appear from the ether and give him these teachings and bring him on these mystical adventures. And then Babaji appeared one day and said, there's one last thing before you become enlightened. And he said, okay, I'll do it. Whatever it is, I'll let go of everything. And then he says, okay, come with me. So they go up to the mountain, they meet this other yogi, and this yogi has the power to create a castle. The castle appears. They go into the castle, and then they have this amazing meal on gold plates, and Lahili Mahasaya is like, wow, this is so amazing, And then, after that dinner, he had a self-realization, that he becomes enlightened. And his master, Babaji said, you had to experience this fine, happy, bright thing to let go of the self. Let's go and set your cave and forget about his family or his job, because he had a family and he had a government job. So it's like, no, no, no, do those things. But also, enlightenment is great, magical, beautiful, wonderful things. That's self-realization, at least the way we do it. So self-realization is really having the light of enlightenment in your mind, in your heart, in your work, in your relationships. The pathway to self-realization is this wonderful adventure. There's many pathways. There's ways where you sit around and get bored until you go beyond boredom, but there's also the fun way, the bright way, seeing light and love and eternity and all that you do and accepting that as your true nature. And that's our way and that's self-realization. So now I'd like you to sit nice and straight. I'm going to give a transmission teaching, the transmission of self-realization. And I'd like you to focus on your third eye, soft focus, and look up here towards me. And in this transmission, I'm transmitting the actual essence of Self-Realization. I'm transmitting it, I bring up this kundalini, this very refined spiritual energy, and then I project it. And it goes beyond time and space. It's not a matter of you have to sit here in front of me, oh no, Kundalini. It's not like in one place. It's definitely in quantum physics, two places at once. this, this was back then. No, this living eternal light is here and now in this very moment. And this transmission only brings down only your blind spots so that you can see eternity, past, time, and space. So sit up nice and straight, bring a soft focus to the third eye and look up this way. And let's begin.

0:47:46
so So meditate, practice mindfulness, do the Enlightenment Workbook, job yoga, practice compassion, and in all these ways enjoy

0:51:46
the path and in every meditation, every act of compassion, every practice of job the path and in every meditation, every act of compassion, every practice of job yoga, it brings a greater self-realization. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
