0:00:00
Welcome.

0:00:02
All right so we're going to have our yoga satsang. We're going to begin with meditation. So sit up nice and straight. We're going to have a meditation. One song on the heart.

0:00:26
Let's begin. Thank you. the the the the the the the the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the the the Thank you. the the the the the the the So today, I'm going to talk about spiritual balance in work and business.

0:05:50
Spiritual balance is an important practice for job yogis. In job yoga, with all of the things that we do, all the actions that we take, all the tasks, all the business, all the, you know, sales, programming, services. In all of these things, we seek to find spiritual balance. We find spiritual balance by aligning our intent with our thoughts and our feelings with our intent. We develop a strong attention through focus, through attention to detail, through care in our work. And we harmonize with our environment, with our tasks, with our boss, customers, co-workers. And by having these observations of impeccability and selflessness, we come to a place of contentedness. Even though there's difficulties, even though things are harsh, even though there's mistakes, we come to a place where we're happy. We find a peace in our heart and we find a happiness in our lives. Now this is spiritual balance in work. Now this is different than what a lot of companies talk about or a lot of what's kind of popular. We create this work-life balance. So work-life balance is not spiritual balance in work. This work-life balance idea is opposites. They say, work is one thing, life is another. And so they set up a duality, and then these dualities are dueling, so you're fighting against your life versus your work. So that's something something that you'll never win. You'll never win in that game. So the spiritual balance in work is a totally different paradigm, different understanding, because the work-life balance thing is never gonna give you satisfaction. If you're doing too much work, you'll be bothered. You're doing too much life, you're not paying enough attention to work. So, you know, the companies these days, they want to make employees happy. So they say, yeah, we want to support your work-life balance. But then they're like, hmm, you know, you're doing too much life balance. We've got to get you more into work. So then they start pressuring. So it's a paradigm that doesn't make any sense. One of my students went to work on a Monday and then his boss was like, hey, in the afternoons all this week, we have a work life balance workshop. So it's a special workshop that the company's offering you. And he said, I encourage you guys to go. So a bunch of the people on his team went. And then at the end of the week on Friday, he's like, you know what? We're way behind. You guys have to come in over the weekend to catch up on the work we missed over the weekend. That's a perfect work balance. Most people don't have spiritual balance in their work. You can work a lot and have spiritual balance, but most people don't. Most people struggle in their work, they have stress in their work. I read something where they said 83% of American workers say they're stressed out at work. And only 18% of American workers say they're happy at work. That's only a little bit better than at Disney. In Disneyland, only one out of seven dwarves is happy. So spiritual balance is being happy at your work. And it is not being stressed out, it's bringing balance, no matter what your workload. You know, even in America, like this crazy country that doesn't have vacations, right? Where people don't take vacations. It's a place where you can have spiritual balance in your work. Spiritual balance in your work means that you have to make adjustments. You have to make adjustments. So if you go into your work the same way that you're doing anything in your life, you'll find that you get unbalanced, that you get stressed. But when you go into your work with wisdom and you adjust to the circumstances, then you'll find that you can have balance. But it means that you do something, you take an action that brings you balance. So a long time ago in China, the Taoist master said, okay, I'm going to teach you guys the lesson of balance. And they went to this river, kind of a raging river, and they went to a place where there was a tree that fell across the river. And so the master gets two buckets of water for each of them. And then they have a wooden stick to hold the water, you know, like hold it on a stick and it's easier to carry. And he said, okay, here's what you guys got to do. You have to walk across this tree, across the river, holding the two buckets. And so the master walked across the tree and waited on the other side to watch them. It's a good vantage point. And then they were like, okay, that can't be so hard. So the first monk picks up the water and recognizes that one of the buckets is more full than the other. And he goes, that's okay, I'm just gonna go. He starts walking across the tree where he has to be careful with his balance and having being off, he goes, whoa, whoa, whoa. And he falls into the raging water. Woo, and barely gets out alive. And the other monk who was behind him was like the same thing. He's like, I'm just gonna go across. And then he watches what happens to the first guy. And he's like, oh, and he just stops. He's like, oh my gosh, I don't wanna fall in the water.

0:12:40
He's just afraid.

0:12:41
And then the third monk goes, hmm, there's a problem with my balance. So he puts it down, he finds some rocks, he puts some rocks into the other side a little bit more and he goes, okay this is balanced. Then he's able to walk across the tree. So the master says, this is how people come to any task. Either with hubris, where they just go into it with their karma, and if it's an imbalancing situation, they'll find themselves in balance. Or they see that it's a difficult situation and they freeze out of fear. The stress and imbalance of the situation stops them. Or you make an adjustment. And if you make an adjustment, then you can have balance to go forward. So you've got to make adjustments. It's very important. See, for spiritual balance, you have to bring something to the situation to gain spiritual balance. You can't expect that your job or your business is going to balance you, because the karma of it is that it's an imbalanced situation. It's not going to balance you. You'll either fall off or freeze, or you'll probably do both a lot, you know, in a regular job. So, you want, if you're balanced, you can proceed. You can advance.

0:14:14
You can be strong.

0:14:15
You can get to the other side. So, there's a story of a comedian, pretty famous one in America, Rodney Dangerfield. So, he was a comic comedian, and he was okay, you know, he did some shows, people kind of liked him. But it wasn't, it was just a nice thing for a young man to do as a bachelor. Then he got married and had kids. So, he had to get a job, a job that would pay the bills. So he started selling aluminum house siding and he had to go door to door. He was a door to door salesman. And doing door to door sales, you get a lot of people who slam the door in your face. And so it's a very difficult job and it's a job where you get a lot of rejection. So he found that it was very challenging. There was a lot of negativity. And so you know what he did to bring balance to it? He brought humor. And he was like, this is where he started his, I don't get no respect because people would slam the door in his face. And his big famous, you know, comic thing is that, I get no respect. So he's got jokes like,

0:15:43
let's see what are some of his jokes.

0:15:44
He's got a joke like, I get no respect. When I was born, the doctor slapped my mom. You know, and he'd be like, I get no respect. There was this girl that I was dating. She called me and she said, come over, no one's home. Then I went over and no one was home. So he's got like these, you know, these jokes about how he's always getting no respect, but they're kind of cute and fun. So, but he came up with that whole angle, that repertoire, and he made that, being a salesman who gets the door slammed in his face, he made it into a comedy routine. And then he was so funny that he started making lots of sales. And then he was so funny that he started to do, you know, comedy on the weekends, and then everybody loved him, and then he became extremely famous fast. So you gotta bring something to your work that adds, that makes it balanced. So he brought humor and he was very successful in sales and in his comic career. So today I'm going to be talking about some of those adjustments that you have to make in order to have balance. So the first one is to understand something about the nature of work.

0:17:16
So some people think,

0:17:17
I could be spiritually balanced if I didn't have to struggle at work. When I'm struggling at work, then I'm unbalanced. So the most important thing to understand is that there's struggle everywhere. So you have to be comfortable with struggle. In fact, you have to enjoy struggle. You have to get yourself to have a different relationship with struggle, because struggle is a part of life. It's part of work. You can't avoid struggle. So you've got to say, all right, then what do I do about it? Let me redefine my relationship with struggle and start enjoying the struggle. And then you'll be able to do your work, take on the struggle, because there's difficulty in everything. There's struggle in everything. So if you learn to have a good attitude towards struggle, positive attitude towards struggle, then you'll be able to be a lot more successful. If you think things should go perfectly and then something bad happens and you're like, I'm so upset, then for you, everything that good happens is a blessing and then everything that happens, we take it as a struggle. And we enjoy a struggle. So there was someone I was talking about recently, Desi Arnaz, of the I Love Lucy show. He played Ricky Ricardo on this 1950s show. And he said in an interview that he had a lot of struggle in his life. The first struggle was a revolution in Cuba and then the struggle to come to America. The next struggle was learning English. The next struggle was putting his band together. And he faced these difficult struggles and he noticed if he fights his life is better. And so he started to enjoy the struggles. So he started enjoying putting his band together, enjoying going to different, you know, getting jobs at different clubs, enjoying creating his own club, enjoying doing his first Broadway play, enjoying his first movie premiere. And that's where he met Lucille Ball. So he started to enjoy the struggles. Now, he had met Lucy on this one movie, and then they got married, and they came up with this idea for a TV show called I Love Lucy, where Ricky Ricardo and Lucy are a married couple and they, you know, like the TV show. And so they pitched it to the networks and the networks were like, no way, this is the 1950s America. We're not going to have, you know, mixed race couple on TV. Like our audience is not going to like it. And then Desi Arnaz said, hmm, you know what? This is a struggle. I know what you do this. How am I going to win? And he kept on trying to pitch it and pitch it and pitch it. Then he said, you know what I gotta do?

0:21:03
I gotta prove it.

0:21:05
So he took his, you know, his orchestra, his band on a nationwide tour with Lucy. And on this tour, she was a famous comedian. She was a famous musician. And so they had a lot of popularity. And then on this tour, it wasn't just music. It was Lucy doing funny songs. And then they started doing skits for the audience. And they were ideas for this I Love Lucy sitcom. And then they had a famous nationwide tour, and it really was the proof needed for the networks that this could work for a regular audience. So they gave it the go-ahead, and then they had a very successful show, one of the great comedies in America, classic. They won like five Emmys, very, very, very successful. So this was because he enjoyed the struggle. Whatever it took for him to succeed, he would do it. If it was a struggle, he said, let's have fun with that struggle. So there's always a way, and enjoy it and be successful. So I like computer programming. So I recommend computer science, programming, software engineering as a career for a lot of my students. And I really like it because there's always struggle involved. So in computer programming, to start, you learn some computer programming language and you get a job. But it's not like you learn a language, you get a job, and you do that for the rest of your life. You have to learn new technologies, because new technologies come up all the time. So in every contract, you're learning new technologies. And then you have to learn a new language, or a new framework, and new this and that. So you're always developing, always creating, always expanding your skills. So you're not just learning one thing and then getting bored to death in your life. You're constantly honing your focus, expanding your awareness, developing your personal power and applying it in every job. Meditation is also a struggle. And meditation doesn't come easy, right? Stopping thought does not come easy in the beginning. So it takes a lot of persistence. And if you sit there and struggle with your thoughts, if you fight your thoughts, you'll never develop a meditation, a successful meditation practice, you'll quit. So if you struggle with your thoughts, if you don't like that struggle, you'll just fight and be bothered. So you have to learn to meditate and enjoy the struggle. So when you're meditating and you're holding your mind on the chakra, and then all these thoughts come up and you're like, oh gosh, my thoughts are in the way. It's like I'm looking at a beautiful view of the ocean, but then these clouds come in. And you say, oh gosh, I have to refocus. And then the clouds part. And then the clouds come back in. You have to refocus and the clouds part. So you could get really bothered by the clouds, by the thoughts that come in. But you have to just let it go and enjoy that process of bringing your attention back to the focus, feel the chakra, and experience that ability, that moment of bringing your focus back and being more still. And when you do that again and again and again, then the clouds don't come back and you have a peaceful, beautiful experience. But you have to enjoy the struggle of meditation. Because it takes some time to be able to hold your focus, let the thoughts go and bring it back. So if your meditation is hard, if it's difficult, if you think your meditation is horrible, don't judge your meditation, but enjoy the struggle. So a lot of people think I would have spiritual balance if I had more money. So if I had more stuff or more time, more money, if I had more stuff, then I would be balanced. So the reason I'm not balanced is because I don't have enough time in the week. I don't have enough money to pay for things that would give me balance. So a lot of people think if I had a greater amount, a greater access, then I would be balanced. And it's not true. So, you know, there's lots of people, you know, you can see who make more money than you do. It doesn't mean that they're balanced. They're probably miserably hooked into their karmas. So excess doesn't give you more. This is low battery. So having an excess doesn't give you balance. It gives you more, more, more stuff maybe to worry about. Some people say more money, more trouble. So you have to recognize that with what you have now, you can have spiritual balance. If you have more, then with that more, you have to start balancing your life so that you use that more in a way that brings you more balance. So if you have more, that means that you got more water in one bucket and you have to balance it out by maybe taking some more water, putting a rock in, something like that, right? So having more could unbalance you. So you have to use whatever excess you gain to achieve a greater balance. When you get an excess, if you use it right, then you advance, you advance higher. So this reminds me of probably a story I've told before about Toyota. So Toyota in 1950 came over to visit Ford. And they said, we have to see what's going on. We want to do cars. I think they were doing cars a little bit, but they wanted to, you know, expand their organization. But they were just they were just making a model car or something. So they come to Ford and they look through the Ford plant and they're like, yeah, we want to do cars. And they look how Ford is doing it and they were like wow okay there's a warehouse of parts and there's all these suppliers putting parts into that warehouse and that warehouse is worth multi-millions of dollars and that's where they draw their parts from to make the cars was Eiji Toyoda, who was there. He was like, wow, there's no way we can afford this whole inventory. It's just not possible for us in Japan at the economical state that society was in at the time. So he was like, wow, this is not good. And he was like, how are we gonna do it? And he was kind of stressing over it. And then after, you know, he was there for, I think a month and a half, and he was going through lots of different processes. And then one day after looking through the warehouse, he happened to go to a supermarket called the Piggly Wiggly. He's going to the Piggly Wiggly, and he was really impressed with the supermarkets in America. Because, you know, in Japan they had little markets, you know, like couple vendors and things like that. And then he goes into an American supermarket, and he's like, wow, there's so much stuff. So he's really impressed with it. But then something dawned on him. You know, he went to, you know, like the soup aisle. And they were like, you know, if you wanted tomato soup, there's like a dozen cans of tomato soup. And then he goes, huh, okay. And then he goes over to the pasta aisle. If you want spaghetti, there's like 20 packets of spaghetti. So then he says, hmm, now if this was Ford's warehouse, there would be a thousand packets of spaghetti. And he said, but you don't need a thousand packets of spaghetti sitting here. You only need that 20 and you just need to keep replenishing it. So he then said, now that is the kind of thing that we can afford. So if we create a different process where we don't have a thousand of everything there, we have just enough, just in time for the processes of manufacturing, then we can afford to do this. So he created a new process and he created something, you know, that's called Lean. And it's how you can do management of enterprise resources in a way where you don't have some mega, mega, mega, you have to have everything in a warehouse. So, you know, thanks to the Piggly Wiggly, he was able to see a stronger way to do things. Now Ford eventually followed Toyota's management of resource planning, because Ford was putting all this money into a giant warehouse. And then when a big innovation in car change would happen, they'd find that maybe 30% of their parts weren't usable anymore. So they were wasting money and putting a whole bunch of money into something that didn't immediately bring revenue. So that was a place of imbalance. Even though they had a lot of money, it was a place of imbalance. So over time, they followed what they did to a place of balance. Now, in they have an excess is what we call attachment or routine. So if you have an attachment to something, that's an excess for a job yogi. If you're in a routine, that's an excess for a job yogi. That's where you find yourself in a rut, where you cannot change. So I remember one time, I had a student who was a senior quality assurance technician. And so this person had been doing six or seven years of QA and kind of came up to a higher rate for QA. And then they learned computer programming, but then they didn't wanna go from a high senior QA rate to a junior programming rate. They said, I can't take that job cut. Even though if they became a experienced programmer, it would pay a lot more and an advanced programmer would pay a lot more.

0:33:27
So they were like, huh.

0:33:28
So they were staying in a rut because they had an attachment and they couldn't bridge that gap. So then I told her, work on a yoga project on the side, and get the experience that you need so that you can get not a junior programming job, but an experienced programming job that would be a raise over what you're getting as a QA developer or manager. And then, so she did. She spent about eight months working on a yoga project and then got really good and then was able to go forward with a resume saying I have experience and then was able to get a higher paying job. So excess for a yogi is where we observe, where we have attachments that are holding us back, routines that are holding us back, where we find ourself in a rut. So if you find yourself in some kind of rut, then you have to say, I have an excess of attention, an attachment in this regard. In spirituality, excess comes in having egotism and hubris in the knowledge that you have, but missing the humility and apprehension of truth. So if you read a lot of books, formulate a lot of ideas, and maybe you're good at explaining them, maybe you're eloquent, maybe you're intelligent, and all of these things. That doesn't mean that you know truth. You could be tricking yourself into thinking that you do, but having book learning or intellectual understanding is not the essence of the path. So, a long time ago, a thousand years ago, in Tibet, there was a great yogi named Milarepa, and Milarepa was enlightened and had many powers such as flying and things like that. So he's a well-known, very famous yogi. And he didn't have any book learning. He had only yoga where he did karma yoga and meditation. And he all of the Dharma that he taught was from his direct experience but he didn't learn any of the sutras, didn't learn any of the things that many many other monks have learned. But everyone revered him for his wisdom. But one day there was a lama who was very well versed in all sutras and this lama came to him and started to debate him and started to challenge him and said, oh you know Milarepa, what do you think of, you know, this verse in the Heart Sutra? And then, and then he'd say, do you know that verse? And Milarepa was like, no. And then, then Milarepa would say, what is the verse? And then he'd say, well, I know it. And he would say the verse. And then Milarepa would, would do a, he kind of, he would sing his dharma talks. So he did this beautiful song for an hour about that one verse, but beyond that verse, the truth behind it. So not just the concept, but many beautiful dimensions of understanding the truth. So though this lama had these really cool, pithy sayings of some enlightened person who wrote it down in paper. That's all he knew, was that he could read that and he could understand that intellectually and he can say it. He'd say, well, you know, Baba says this, right? But Milarepa was able to know the truth beyond it and to, you know, expand upon it and elucidate a greater picture of that truth stated in the Sutra. So this is important. Now, the first thing you have to ask yourself is, am I giving this enough attention? Am I trying hard enough? Am I being impeccable in the way that I'm trying to get this done. Because if you're not pushing, then it might, you very well may not be putting enough energy into it. So when you have too much excess, you have that hubris, there's that over balance. But a lot of times, for most job yogis, you find that you're not doing your work with impeccability, so there's something deficient. So you have to say, hmm, okay. And you might be like, well, you know, for my whole career, this level of tension has been just fine, and it's worked out, but I'm not getting to where I want to get. Then you have to push the envelope. So karma yoga is about going beyond karma. So if you're like this is the way I've always done it, this level of tension, this energy, this is good enough. It's not good enough. There's a deficiency there. So you have to really see improvement in your work. You have to see that you're doing new things, that you have you're doing your work better. You have to see an upward progress in the actual physical actions and in your accomplishments. So you have to push the envelope. Otherwise, you may be deficient and stagnant in your work. So this is an important thing that you always want to observe. You're like, am I being impeccable? Is my work getting done better? Am I getting it done faster? Am I moving up in my career? Am I getting more sales? Is my business growing? It's all dependent on you not being stagnant, you pushing the envelope. So there was another story about Desi Arnaz. Once they got the okay for the I Love Lucy show, Desi Arnaz wanted to do things different. He had been in a movie, right? And that's what he was used to. And then he saw how TV was done. And he was like, I don't wanna do that. I wanna do this show more like it was a movie. Now at the time in 1951, the way that they did shows on TV was they had, they did the shows where they had a really kind of weird technology where they would shoot the show and everybody at home who would see it would watch this kind of very grainy picture. And it was because of the type of film that they were using. It wasn't the same caliber as movie film. It was a whole different system. And it was, that's how they were doing TV. And he said, I want to do it with the same kind of film they're using in movies. So he made that decision. And then he said, I also want to do this show differently. Instead of just one camera, he said, I want three cameras. So he's like, I want these angles. And then he decided he wanted also a live audience. So he created that as a structure. Now that became, by the way, even to this day, the way that sitcoms are. Some don't have live audiences, right? But they all use three cameras. So he created this way that was really the birth of the sitcom, the modern sitcom. And so everything went well, but the network thought he was crazy. They were like, why? It doesn't even make any sense. Do you know how much it costs for additional cameras and a still? And he said, I'll pay it myself. And they said, okay, that's fine. So he took a big cut to pay for it himself, but he really believed that it was necessary to get the quality that he wanted, the different angles and things like that. So he invested in that and it was successful and it ran the way that he wanted it to and it was all great. And he was like, okay, cool. Now there was this one time, five years into the series, where Lucy was pregnant and they were coming up to, you know, the And one of the producers was like, what are we going to do in the show? You know, she's got to take time off. That's back when people used to take time off when they had kids in America. Now it's have a kid, get to work the next day. But they were like, what are we going to do? And then Desi Arnaz said, we're going to replay the ones that we have. We have them on a high quality film, so we're going to replay it. And they said, oh, okay, I think we can get away with that. So they, so then they did. And that was the birth of something we call the rerun. So he, he invented And then, because he was able to, because he took the expense of getting the cameras in the film, he wrote him a contract that he owned it. And then, after the series was over, then he went to another network and said, I'll sell you this. And they said, oh yeah, that was a popular show and everyone's happy with this thing called a re-run now. So they buy it from him and then they play it. So you know, in America, you know, I grew up, you know, probably in the early 80s watching I Love Lucy and it was because it was syndicated. All of that, I love Lucy money, went back to Desi Arnaz. So he created also that business model of syndication. So he did a lot that became very, very powerful in the television sitcom rerun syndication he created. So that's because he was pushing the envelope.

0:45:39
If he had just done the regular way

0:45:41
that they did shows back then, we wouldn't have it on film. It wouldn't be something that we would have grown up watching. So you gotta push the envelope. Now I had a student who was going for a computer programming job, and he had taken the classes. He had done, you know, pretty much the minimum, but he passed the classes, and then he started going for a job. And he wasn't passing the technical interviews. And then he got a little discouraged and came to me. And I said, you're just not trying. You're not pushing the envelope. You are not trying. If you wanted it, you would try. You would give it your all, you would push. That's what's required to get a computer programming job. To get a job, you have to push. You can't just be like, you can't just show up and be like, hey, I'm here, right? No, you have to push, you have to really drive yourself. So I said, you need to study every question you got wrong on the interviews, on these technical interviews, you need to study those things and know them perfectly. You need to like, you know, do coding examples where you actually know that. And I said, and you got to try, you have to push, you got to like really go for it. And so he said, okay, I'll do it. And then he really, he really started to learn everything that he got wrong. Then he goes on another interview and got things wrong and learned and learned and learned. And he goes on another interview and got things wrong and learned and learned and learned. And then on the next interview, he recognized people were asking the same questions and that he had learned and he knew the answers. So then he passed the interview, but more importantly, because he was pushing, his personal power was up. And when your personal power is up, then you're going to succeed. So then he got a computer programming job and was successful. So you have to try. You have to have tenacity, you have to push, you have to go for momentum. You got to feel good about it Also in spiritual practice, right? You can't just show up Meditate sometimes if you don't have a daily meditation practice then your practice is without a foundation You have to make sure that you're meditating Every day you have to meditation is you know, it's the basis of spiritual practice. So you've got to meditate. And then when you meditate, then you're able to build upon that with your karma yoga practices, your job yoga practices. So it's very important. Now, there's a story about Milarepa. Before he became a great enlightened master, master. He came to his first meditation or his first Buddhist teacher and he comes to the ashram and he says, can I come in? The guy goes, yes, come in. He says, this is a place of enlightenment. Here you will become enlightened. It's just enlightenment is here. It's wonderful. And Nilarapa goes, all right, great. So, here's your room. All right. Tomorrow we're going to meet in the morning for meditation and spiritual teachings and things like that. Miller goes, all right, cool. And then the next day, you know, he wakes up and goes, I don't think I'll go to that. I'll just sit here and wait around for my enlightenment. So he just sat around waiting for his enlightenment. And he did this day after day, and the master comes over and says, you have to actually come and learn things. And he's like, why? This is a place of enlightenment. I'm just waiting for it to come. So then the master said, oh you know who could really help you is my teacher Marpa. Yeah yeah yeah that'll be much better for you. So he sends him to Marpa and Marpa puts him to work he puts him into karma yoga and so when he was just sitting around in a place where it's like, oh, everyone's meditating, but why bother? I could just sit here. I don't see a difference. Then he wasn't practicing. But then Marpa definitely got to practice. He engaged him with something, which was yoga. So you got to do things. It's very important. But when you are, you know, strong, you enjoy the struggles of work and life. When you're balancing the excesses and the deficiencies of your attention, then what happens is this flow of energy. Then you're flowing in your work. You're flowing in your business. So this is what we want to come to, this condition where we're in balance. We're prepared and ready. We don't have any illusions that we should just be sitting there relaxed and everything should work out for us, right? We know we're doing hard work and we're working on where there's excesses balancing it, where there's deficiencies balancing it. And then we come into this place of Wu Wei, this place where energy flows. So there was a great teacher, the founder of Aikido, Yoshiba, and he found this balance of excess and stagnation in martial arts and he put it together. And he taught a way where when there's an attack, instead of coming against it, there's conflict. That's where there's congestion. He, and if you overcome it, then that's success, but it's a crash. So that would either conflict and hurt you or conflict and hurt them. He found this way of flowing, where the attack would come and he would go with the attack. So the attack would come and he would go with it and then he could put the person down. They're pushing and then he guides them. That's the energy of Aikido. So we want to be able to flow. I saw a video of him where he had about a dozen students surrounding him, and one at a time they would come over and attack him, and he's going with, you know, their attack. Their attack comes and he goes with it, and circles and puts them down. And he just continues to do this over and over, attacker after attacker after attacker, and he looks like he's going for a little dance. He's like kind of dancing around and all these guys are falling all over around him. So that's very much the flow. Now a lot of my students find this, this flow, the power of this flow, when they get into that flow state with, say, searching for a job. I mean, you can find it in learning computer programming or learning a skill. You can find it in any aspect of a job. But one place that I notice it is where my students, they push their power up because they have to get a new job and they're raising their rate. And so at first, they're at a certain level of tension. And then they work on their excesses and their deficiencies and their personal power rises. And then at some point during their process, maybe they've done three or four interviews, then they'll get an offer. And then once they get that offer, they usually get another or another. They might get two or three offers, but it doesn't happen until they get into that, that they raise their personal power and they feel it's very strong and there's that flow. So the flow is, you know, I've been working for a couple of weeks, you know, interviewing, and then all of a sudden I got to the place where I got that offer, that's where the flow is. And then you go, huh, and another offer came in, and another offer came in.

0:54:24
You're like, wow.

0:54:25
So that's a flow. It's the same in sales. When you develop yourself to a high level of attention where there's no excess, where there's no deficiency, then you've got this pipeline of sales, and then all of a sudden they start to just come it starts to flow. So this is what we're looking for. Now, there's a Buddhist secret to how to come into that condition of flowing. A way to very, very easily be able to identify and deal with the excesses and the deficiencies and the struggle. And that is to have vision.

0:55:13
Vision.

0:55:14
And vision is to see a higher purpose. A higher purpose in what you're doing. So if you're just doing things for yourself, for a paycheck, you know, in just, you know, regular reciprocity, you know, just, I do this just to, you know, fulfill whatever requirements for my life. Then you have a limitation. Then you're caught in self, caught in karma. But if you have a bigger vision, a deeper, more powerful, higher dharma vision for why you're doing things in your life, why you're doing your job, why you're doing your business, then, you know, dealing with the excesses and the deficiencies become obvious and become easy to balance. And then you enter into that flow state. And then there's, in that state, there's happiness and there's success. So there was a company called the Kindness Company, and they sell these granola bars, the Kindness Bar. Now, this is a $3 billion company. So it's a, it's a, you know, they sell little, little bars that are supposed to be good for you and all that stuff. Good for you, granola bar, muesli ball, right? And, um, it's created, um, you know, on this concept of kindness. So the CEO, his name is Dan Lubetzky, his father was a Holocaust survivor. And back when he was like a kid, like eight years old, his father told him a story. So he was in Poland or something and a concentration camp. And he was like, you know, starving and miserable and everything was going on so long and he's just like, I'm just gonna, he's like laying in a corner, just miserable and like really starving. And he's just like, I'm gonna die, it's terrible. And then a, there was a German soldier who, you know, just looked around and saw him and he snuck him over a potato. So he comes over and sneaks a potato to him and he's like, oh my god, a whole potato. So he eats a potato and it gives him energy, but also the uh an energy of kindness. It gave him like a spiritual upliftment. And then he was able to hang on. And that's what, you know, kindness does. It's not just the act that you do. It actually brings a spiritual energy that, you know, can make you transform a whole difficult situation. So shortly after that, you know, the allies came and he was freed, and then, you know, eventually came to America. But he told his son this at a very young age, and then his son was like, wow. He's like, I want to do something about kindness. And he just grew up thinking that. He had that vision. And then when he was, you know, an adult and he's like, okay, you know what, I'm going to go into making a granola bar, right? I'm going to sell these bars and, you know, they're going to be good for you and all this stuff. And then he's like, but I want it to be, you know, the mission of this company is kindness. So I wanted to have that, that energy, that vision that, that my father gave me and told me about that story. So he created that as their mission statement, kindness. And then he created principles of kindness that would be run in the company. But he made this very successful company out of this vision of kindness. Now, there's all sorts of granola bars out there that make money, right? His success and his happiness from his work comes because he has a higher vision. So it's a very beautiful thing. So for us job yogis, our higher vision is enlightenment. So we do our work for enlightenment. Enlightenment is our vision. So now I'd like to do job yoga and that is a vision of enlightenment. Enlightenment is the reason. It's the thing that we see beyond seeing that inspires us to do more, to grow. All right, so sit up nice and straight. We're going to have a focus on the third eye. And let's begin.

1:00:50
So the the the the the the the the the the the So the the the the the the the Thank you. All right, wonderful. Make a new relationship with your work, with your business. Enjoy the struggle. There's always going to be struggle. So there's only a question, do you enjoy it? Are you being impeccable? Always willing to take on hardship.

1:04:27
There's never not going to be hardship. So always be ready for hardship. Always be ready for struggle and enjoy struggle. You know, you have to make that decision to say, no, I'm going to have, there's always going to be hardship, so I'm going to be impeccable with it. I'm going to enjoy it. I'm going to tell some jokes around it, right? Enjoy your struggles and most importantly have this vision, vision of enlightenment. Do everything in your work for enlightenment, do everything in your business for enlightenment. Seek enlightenment in your heart, in your work and in your business and then the places where you observe excesses, you will address them easily. And the places where you have deficiencies, you will address them easily. And that brings you And the places where you have deficiencies, you will address them easily. And that brings you spiritual balance in your work. It makes your work an unfoldment of the dharma. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
