0:00:00
Hello everyone. Welcome to Satsang with Sambara. All right, so we're going to begin with meditation. We're going to sit for one song. We're going to focus on the heart chakra. So sit up nice Thank you. So

0:00:21
So so so the the the so you so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, All right. So today I'd like to talk about karma yoga. So don't worry, we're not going

0:04:37
to be doing any stretches. But karma yoga is different than hapa yoga. They both are yoga, and yoga means union. Union of the finite and infinite. Union of the self and eternity. So the point of yoga is to come into this connection, the connection of self and nirvana, enlightenment. Now, you might have done a yoga class before and you're I didn't get any enlightenment out of it. But it could happen. I once had a yoga instructor showing me how to do downward dog. And she said, if you do this properly, you will have a spiritual elevation. And I was like, wow, really? That sounds like quite a stretch. The thing with a yoga instructor is that they've got to be good, because I had a really bad one once back in New York, and she left me in quite an awkward position. So anyway, the thing about Hatha yoga is it is very focused on the physical, the way that most people do it. I'm sure there's some, you know, masters out there, but even some of the masters, they're just too focused on the physical. Now a lot of people will do Hatha Yoga and they'll come to kind of a peace and a balance and it's a good thing, but it still isn't enlightenment. Enlightenment, it's like, it's too physical, and it's good for you. I love it, it's wonderful. There's a lot of wonderful benefits. But yoga means enlightenment. And you don't hear a lot of people going, yeah, I went to my enlightenment class on Wednesday and did the warrior. Here, we do the warrior, and there is actually enlightenment. Yeah, so compared to karma yogis, hatha yogis are a bunch of posers. Okay, so karma means action.

0:07:21
Action, when you look at action,

0:07:23
you say, I took an action. And then you see the result of the action. So it's action and result of action. So when you understand that you can take positive actions and see good results, you see that that is a way up. That's a way to get higher. Right action, good results. Higher empowerment, higher awareness, higher consciousness, with the right actions. So once I had a student who was an artist, and he's like, oh, my art is so spiritual, but he was miserable in his life. And I said, your art is not spiritual. He's like, but it is because it's my work. And I'm like, it's not spiritual at all. And he meditated with me enough. So he said, maybe I'm going to listen to this guy. He said, okay, what is a way that I can be spiritual in my art? I said, okay, I'll teach you karma yoga. That's the way up. He said, all right, I'm in. I'm like, are you sure? Because if you commit to this, Daniel-san, karate, this is a, yeah, it's like you can either do it or not, but you can't be in between. And he said, I'm gonna do it, 100% what you say. I said, okay, let's do computer programming. And he was like, are you kidding me? Get out of here, how's that gonna help my art? I'm like, I don't know. But we're talking about spiritual practice and work. And then he was like, oh my gosh. But he went forward with it, which is the first part. And then in his art, when he showed me his art, he was doing things where he was like, it was just binding his ego into whatever he felt like doing. And when he started doing computer programming, he had no ego attachment. He was open. He was an open canvas. And then when he learned computer programming, he was learning things in a very structured way, and he noticed that it engaged his mind, he developed himself, and he got happier and more positive and structured, like all the benefits of computer programming and then he became a computer programmer and he was making good living and he was happy. The efforts that he took in learning to be a computer programmer made him happy and strong and wealthy and the things that he did in his art, they binded him into this weird world of the way he wanted to see the world So karma yoga breaks you out of that It breaks you out of the self the ego it goes higher if you take the right actions and Often those actions are actions that you don't want to take you're like I don't want to work Work work isn't fun. I would rather sit on the beach with my friends, drinking Mai Tais, and having a good time. But you have to give yourself to work. So he overcame the dross of self by doing something, by working. And he went higher. And he noticed it. He's like, oh, I like doing my art, but this actually gets me higher. This is karma yoga. So when I teach karma yoga, the yoga of action, I teach that karma yoga in work. Work. A job or any action that you do for your spiritual community. It's work. We work. And when we work properly, when we do karma yoga through work, when we work properly, we work past ourselves.

0:12:29
This is what you need to do.

0:12:30
You need to work past yourself.

0:12:32
If you have a job, work past yourself.

0:12:34
If you want to get a job, work past yourself. If you are going to help your sangha, your community, work past yourself. This is what you got to do. This is what Karma Yoga is. It's a really high line of experience when you work past yourself. You're like, I'm going to work like crazy. You have to spend a lot of energy, but you work past yourself. That's what Karma Yoga is. I see a lot of people lighting up because they work past themselves. When you work past yourself, there's a spiritual light that shines in you. When you want to be that artist, and you're like, this is my life work, and you're like, that is horrible, we can put that up next to the Mona Lisa. Finger piece. Um, then everything then Everything is trouble If you follow the way of the self, there's trouble but when you work past the self, it's always a new adventure An undiscovered country

0:14:18
The other shore as Buddha would say

0:14:20
Now when I talk about work, I say, when you work, if you learn to work right, you will have spiritual satisfaction and worldly satisfaction. You will be happy and make money. This is the balance that we have. And this is the thing that we do that is true. Absolutely, 100% documented in this school that if you do the work right, you're happy and prosperous. So recently, a few weeks ago, I got an email from a student talking about this perfect example. And she gave her sister my book, which is Job Yoga. Job Yoga is a book that describes work and spiritual attention and how to bring them

0:15:48
together.

0:15:49
It is the observations, considerations, mindfulness, awarenesses of how to work and also make that work spiritual work. Make that work, make the thing that you do in your actions, every single thing, be the same thing as a Buddhist monk or as sent her sister, who was just in America, corporate America, she sent her sister this book. And she told her sister, oh, I'm into meditation, this is all good. Her sister's like, all right, whatever. Because her sister lived in Texas. So in Texas, they're like, I don't know, man. And she sent this book, and her sister started reading the book. And she said, this makes sense. This is for real. And she started to put it into action. And this is not even a student of mine. This is the sister of a student. So she had a really hard time. She's working at Texaco, an oil company in Texas where there's mostly white men. She's an African-American woman and she was a great analyst. And then she got Job Yoga book. And she read it and she said, this makes sense. I need to look at things differently. I need to develop myself through these observations and these awarenesses of this practice. And then she did it. And when she did it, she stopped feeling like a victim. She opened up her power. And then after she read the book, six months later, she got a promotion. She was there for eight years without a promotion. So and also she was happy. She had satisfaction from her work. yoga, it actually makes you happy and it gives you satisfaction. This is the thing that does, it brings up the physical and the spiritual. We call it the first attention and the second attention, the seen world and the unseen world. There's a part of your experience of work that is Seen it's like it has to be that your work comes up That means that you pay the right attention to your work and it comes up your work gets better That's what we do here. If your work is going down. You're not in my school my school everyone goes up and Also with your happiness and satisfaction with work. It goes up. You see it, it goes up, up, up, up, up, up.

0:19:43
And so we do this together.

0:19:46
This is how we work.

0:19:48
We go up. This is what Karma Yoga is. It's this focus on the physical, where things get better financially in every way in your job and everything and also you start to smile more, you're happier. This is Karma Yoga. I have to point out an example in our school. software company was AppBuddy. You know, it was a software company on the Salesforce platform. And AppBuddy was really successful in yoga. Now AppBuddy started with a good idea and then it evolved into an understanding of, our customers have a lot of suffering in their lives because of what the Salesforce platform offers them. Now, the Salesforce platform is a really powerful thing that everyone goes into, but then it's hard to use. And then we say, if it's hard to use, how do we make it easier for them to use? And make it so that they don't have so much stress in their lives when they're working. And so, honestly, everybody had compassion. And they grew in compassion. And the more that they worked, the more love that they had, the more compassion that they had. And when it got harder and more difficult, and they had competitors that were 10, no, not 10, 80 times more, let's see, there was this one time where they had a competitor that came out of nowhere and had, they were like, oh, let's copy them and destroy them. And that competitor got $70 million in venture capital. So when that happened, we're like, oh my gosh, we're this tiny little company making $10 million a year. And they're going to crush us. But they didn't.

0:22:19
Yeah, I agree.

0:22:21
Thanks, Katu, I agree. So the reason why is because facing all this opposition, they always came together and facing all this hardship, they had more love, more love for each other. And the love for each other gave them a bigger power to overcome all of the hardships and difficulties. Thanks Kat. Thank you Kat. That's a neo. So they had more connection. So it's like, oh, it's like the, what are those guys called, the Spartans? They can go against the 300. They can go against the giant army. And there's only a little bit of them, but they tighten up, they get together. But they did that in their heart. And they were able to face greater odds, and so many times. So, this is what we have to do. And then also, they would see the problems of their customers, and then they would say, we gotta do a new feature, we gotta do more, we have to help them. And they did, and that's how they became successful and a very successful Silicon Valley company, because they had love that brought them together in the hardships and they had compassion for their customers that made them want to do more. That is the balance. When you balance first attention and second attention, the physical and the spiritual, when you put that it together in a business, you make magic. There's a lot of businesses that just make money. But that's not what we're into. I mean, we want to make money, but we also, the most important thing that we do is we get spirit, enlightenment out of what we do and work. And for you, it might just be getting a job. For some of you, it might be building a business. This is very, very important. Now, karma yoga is essential. So, pardon me. So, karma yoga is essential. You know, I've met so many people who've been meditating for a long time. I've been meditating for a long time, so I've met them. And also, you know, Buddhist monks and yogis who are like, Oh, yeah, I've been meditating for 20-30 years. And I look at them and I'm like, it looks like you've been meditating on the same state of mind for one year. If you don't do yoga, you don't change. Yoga is the most essential practice, if you want to get beyond introduction meditation, if you want to get beyond beginning meditation, you could have 40 years of meditation in the beginning meditation stage. And you can have interesting experiences. You can be a white belt forever. One of the enlightened teachers in our school, Shiva, says, I am a seventh degree white belt. He went to white belt, he did white belt karate and taekwondo and judo forever. And that's what most spiritual people do. They go, wow, I started meditation and I got to do yoga. Otherwise, you will forever be that seventh degree white belt. And he can't fight, by the way. He's a great guy, he's enlightened, but he can't fight. Yeah. So, karma yoga is the way beyond the self It is the way to get stronger. I mean, I can't tell you I've seen I mean, I don't know so many Buddhist monks Who are like I've been meditating for 20 30 years I'm like your meditation is year one meditation, which is good for year one, but you should grow up They don't grow up because they don't do yoga. They do thinking, they do philosophy, they get into this whole world of, I call it self. up. And if you want to get out of introduction, beginning, spirituality, then you have to do Karma Yoga. If you want to stay in introduction Buddhism, then you don't have to do yoga. interesting idea, but it is the real deal. And yeah, when I sit there with Buddhist monks or yogis who are in a certain, you know, they haven't done yoga, they usually stay down at that level. It's very unusual for someone to get to a high state unless they do yoga or if they've been enlightened in a lot of past lives or something like that. So do yoga. You know, there's something in work that is so much greater than your mind. Most spiritual people just sit around in their mind going hmm spiritual thought hmm spiritual meditation blah blah blah blah blah and I call that the spiritual ego but when you work if you're interfacing with truth I could tell some really high yogi oh yeah well fix the carburetor on my car wait carburetors don't exist anymore. Fix the fuel injection on my car." And they'll say, I don't know what that is. I'll say, figure it out and fix it. And a yogi, an enlightened person, a spiritual person, can direct their mind to something, focus on it, do it, and get it done. Yogis are not just, I'll sit around in a cave. I'll sit around in an ashram. That's a retreat. But a true yogi comes into the world and can do anything that they focus their mind on. In spirituality, we're all well, being spiritual is just running away from life. Being all spiritual. Getting away. No, it's dealing with life. It's coming to life. It is saying, what is the main thing? What do I got to do? Anything that I have to do, I'll do, I'll be present for, I will bring my enlightenment to that. So a lot of spiritual people have this thing where they back off, they want to run away. Running away is not spiritual. We have to engage with life. Knowing life is engaging with life. And then there's this thing that thinks, things are painful, so I don't want to engage because it's hard. You need to be able to deal with the pain and hardships and be victorious. That's yoga. Everybody else just wants to run It's very important. You know, when you do yoga, it burns off karma. This is a very simple way of talking, but it's a powerful way. When you do yoga, everything that you do burns off karma. When your karma is gone, you're enlightened. And the example that I have is Tibet's great yogi, Milarepa. Milarepa had a lot of bad karma and then he did a lot of work to burn off that karma. And that's what his guru, Marpa, kept telling him. He's like, you've got to burn off some karma, so do this." And he's like, oh, okay, that's a good idea, but I, oh man, but it's a lot of work. So, Milarepa, just to give you a short story, him and his mother suffered tremendously because of family matters. And then his mother knew that he was kind of special, so she sent him to study with a sorcerer and said, learn the magic to kill our enemies. And he's like, okay, my mom's telling me to do this. I'm very young. So he learned the magic and he was special. So he came back and he's all, And then they died. And then he felt horrible. He was like, wait a minute. I did this because I was so concerned for my mom's happiness and she told me what to do when I was young. So I listened to my mom. But after using magic to kill my enemies, I feel horrible. So then he found his way to his guru, Marpa. He's like, I need to somehow get rid of this pain. And he's like, and Marpa is an enlightened teacher, says, okay, I know what to do. He's like, build a tower over here. Build a tower. Stones. And he's like, I don't know how to build a tower. Figure it out. And be great. Make sure that tower doesn't fall down. So he spent all this time, all this energy building towers. And Marpa said, this is burning off karma. He got this back pain, all this, it was the hardest thing, it was so difficult. And Marpa was like, this is what you have to do to burn off karma. And then he got to a certain point of work where he was just building towers with stones. He became an expert mason by practicing. And then Marpa said, okay, now you've burned off enough karma, now sit in meditation. And then Milarepa became this master that all Tibetans of every different group appreciates, that is really Tibet's great yogi. So, you burn off karma through the works. It's very important. You know, when you're, when you, every thought that you have, every intention that you take in a moment, everything that you do to do some karma yoga, everything that you do, it cleans your karma. It takes away the veil. I think it's like the windshield wiper. Every thought, every action, every intention. You might have this like dirty windshield. Every thought cleans it a little bit more. So every thought, every intention, every focus which is selfless towards Karma Yoga is the way to get you higher. It's the way to get you to the next level. Alright, so we're going to sit. This is going to be the transmission of Karma Yoga. That which gets you higher. That which is the intention of work for spirituality. Okay, so we're going to sit for one song. This is going to be Third Eye and let's begin.

0:36:36
So So so So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so So The So transmission is a very powerful thing. It's, it's, gets the essential aspect of Karma Yoga. In transmission, you get that spiritual essence that everything in Karma

0:37:58
Yoga grows out of. So, you know, I would say ultimately in transmission it burns off your karma and it shows you how to do it and the way to go. So this is very good. It's like holy water. How do you make holy water. Anyway, it's like, you know, when we're here in Hawaii and we're doing yoga, it's always hot yoga. It's a discipline of impeccability and selflessness, ultimately. And impeccability means that you always bring your best. You always try your hardest. You always give it a hundred and ten percent. You always bring your best to your work. You can't be in a bad mood, you can't be tired. If you're ignited in yoga, you're 100% every time. You always bring your best. You might, have you ever had that experience? I don't know, some people haven't. Some people have been like, I feel weird today, blah, blah, blah. You're caught in yourself, in your head, but some of you are lucky enough to have gotten into a job or something where you're like, I have to try. I have to bring my best. And if you've ever experienced that, that is impeccability. You might have been a junior grocery packer, but you were like, this is the job I have. I really am gonna do the best. I want to do this. And if that's the case, that's impeccability. And if you keep on going with that same intent and that same attention, you can go way up in your career. But bring your best care to your work and that's impeccability. And then if you do that, you get to the next level. And then you bring it more there. Now what most people do is they bring some good attention, impeccability to their work and then they get bored of it and they don't want to do it anymore. They're tired of being impeccable, so they don't go higher. Some people go really high and they make a lot of money, and then they get stabilized there. And then we go into selflessness. Selflessness is the other aspect. You've got to really bring your best. And also you have to keep refining that good. This is the Japanese business word, kaizen. This comes from Toyota. Toyota manufacturing. Kaizen. constant improvement. So that's also impeccability. One, you gotta care, and you gotta get to that level of care, and then you constantly improve. You never stop improving. Enlightenment goes on and on. It never ends. Enlightenment is not a final stage. So, enlightened people Enlightened people constantly Kaizen themselves. Even Buddha, his whole life after liberation was Kaizen, Kaizen, Kaizen. Refinement. That's impeccability. To be enlightened is impeccable. But then once you're enlightened, you have to refine yourself even more, get to the next level. That's Kaizen. We do that in yoga. We do that in spirit, we become enlightened, and then we bring our yoga up to that enlightened level,

0:45:21
and that brings us higher.

0:45:23
This is the crux of spirituality, is to do good physical work, this is Karma Yoga, and when you do good physical work, your meditation gets better. When your meditation gets better, your physical work gets better. That's the balance.

0:45:43
And then we get to selflessness.

0:45:45
And selflessness is letting go of the self to do the work. So I had the artist who committed to, I want to learn spiritual work, who said, what? You want me to do computer programming now? And he did it. And he saw for himself that he became happy and bright and had spiritual awareness because he did the work. That's selfless, giving yourself to the work. I remember I was karate, martial arts, it was kung fu. I was a kung fu and TV master. I was really into watching TV and doing kung fu. I would do kung fu while watching TV. I'm not kidding. But I was really, you know, like I was trapped in these ways. And then my spiritual mentor told me, you know, start doing things to help out your spiritual community. Start putting up posters and things like that. And I was like, okay. So then I would spend hours serving my spiritual community. Because I really liked meditation and the spiritual mystical things that I was learning, but I would normally spend my time doing whatever the heck I was into, which was Kung Fu and watching TV. And then I cut those things out and I started doing the work for my spiritual community. That was my first step in yoga. And it was hard. It's funny, but it's true. So it was hard to let go of the things I wanted to do and the things that I knew were special and powerful and helpful. But then I made that shift and I was really focused on helping my spiritual community, and then I felt happier, more balanced, more energy. So selflessness is giving yourself to the work. Another important thing in understanding selflessness is that it's not toil. It is not toil. If it is arduous toil and you're like, oh my gosh, it's so hard, then you haven't figured it out. Selflessness gets into one of Buddha's teachings called right effort. So when you're a yogi, if you're just fighting and toiling, well, I guess you're working through some karma but the highest aspect of karma yoga is right effort. It's where you direct your effort effortlessly. You start to see that when you direct yourself properly things just happen automatically. It's not that you're sitting there going I need to break down a wall. It's that you need to say, there is no wall. And you can flow through things. So for all the yogis, the veteran yogis who are like, oh, it's so, you know, work so hard and yoga so hard. Imagine that it's not hard. You need to learn right effort. You need to do yoga with right effort. So this means that you let go of struggle and see a more powerful way. We see this in Tai Chi. So when I teach my students Tai Chi, if I say, you know, push this person, let's say there's a person there, you've got to push that person, and then they tense up. And then they have weak power. But when you can be flowing with Tai Chi, and you say, Oh, I don't care if there's a person there or what you can relax and have the flow of energy, which is Karma Yoga, the work that you do isn't stress. It's not stress. If you have stress in yoga, you don't have right effort. You have self. You need to get to right effort. So, Karma Yoga, through impeccability and selflessness, eventually comes to right effort, which is that everything that you do flows. You love it. It's wonderful. But hapa yoga's good, too. I like hapa yoga. It's beautiful. It gives you this inner peace and balance. My teacher did Hatha Yoga. I love Hatha Yoga. It's really good. I used to have this Hatha Yoga teacher. She loved her students and she would just bend over backwards for anyone. I can keep going on with these jokes. Yeah. So, you know, there's a reflection that you get from karma yoga. Life reflects your mind and mind reflects your life. I remember I was in a Zen monastery in Kyoto and we had this practice called cleaning. Oh wait, no, it's called practical Zen and that was karma yoga. So in Zen we would sit around and meditate and stuff like that. But then we had this practice called practical Zen and that meant pretty much cleaning up, tending to the garden, sweeping. And what I did was I went out and I would do, you know those stone gardens? They rake the stone gardens into perfection. And so what I did was I went out to the garden. It was kind of funky. I said, oh, this is not right. Whose mind did this? And I went there and I went into Samadhi, a very high state of spiritual union, and I worked from that. And then when I was done, the monks were like, whoa, that's a really good stone garden. I'm like, yeah. It's a reflection of your Buddha nature, your enlightened mind. And then see your enlightened mind and then refine it and learn from that. This is what Karma Yoga is. And you can do it. And you can do it. Okay, thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
