0:00:00
All right, hello.

0:00:05
We're going to begin with meditation. If you would, sit up nice and straight. We're going to bring the focus to the navel chakra and sit for one song. Let's begin.

0:00:18
the the the the So, So, so so So so So so the the the the All right. So this is a school of enlightenment where we have a recognition of enlightenment, a recognition of Buddha

0:07:21
nature. A lot of Buddhism, like Theravada Buddhism, Tibetan Buddhism, there's the talk but not the realization of it. It's relegated to bygone eras. It's like, yes, you travel around, say, where's enlightenment? Well, Buddha was enlightened. So I remember when I was traveling throughout Asia, I was going to monasteries and saying, Hey, who's enlightened? And they're all, Buddha was enlightened. Or Tibet, they're all, Well, you know, you know, Lilla Rapa was enlightened. Marpa. People a long time ago, I'm like, Well, where's the ones now? And they're like, Oh, we wouldn't think so. It's not happening anymore. So if the teachings of the Buddha are teachings of enlightenment, then if people follow the teachings, there should be some enlightenment. And if people kind of lose the heart and the spirit of the teachings and only get into the words and the concepts, then they lose that spark, that light. But that exists. Enlightenment exists. Enlightenment is real. And this is the school of enlightenment. In this school, I've had an enlightened teacher who was really, really what we call woke, and then I became woke, and now I'm woking others. So not only am I liberated, but there's many students in this school who are liberated. So this is a school of enlightenment. And liberation or enlightenment is not a big deal. I mean, we have all these concepts that it's like intergalactic oneness, you know, and all these amazing ideas. If you become enlightened, you turn invisible. You lose your physical form. You just float around as a talking spirit terrorizing your friends. Oh my God, it's a ghost. So, I don't know, everyone has all these weird ideas. But enlightenment is a real thing. And it is something where you work through a lot of karmas, let go of a lot of junk, you become aware, and you actually at some point have an experience, either through insight or through samadhi, high meditation, where you let go of the self. Or I would say there's a whole bunch of karmas and it's like life gives you, deals you a hand in poker. And that's the self. And if you're going to take incarnate form, you get dealt a self. Buddha got dealt a self. He had a certain body. He talked a certain way. It's like, he couldn't change those things. There were certain characteristics. You know, he ended up having a certain illness, right? So, these are the things that, you know, these are the karmas. If you're born, you're dealt a certain hand. That's the self. Now, the thing is, are you attached to that self? You can have a horrible hand and lose every game, right, with that hand, but if you're attached to that self, to that hand, you're winning or losing. You're happy or sad. You're attached to the game. But then what enlightenment is, is like, okay, I have this self with these certain qualities and it's all funny and stuff like that. Sometimes I win, sometimes I lose. Usually I lose. But I'm not attached to that hand, to that game. So, we want to have a recognition of letting go of what we call ego clinging. There's an ego. That means that that's your karma. But we don't cling to that. We let go of that. And we have a recognition that it still exists. As a, you know, like, you know, you get dealt these cards in a card game. And it's like, that's a capricious whatever, something, we call it maya or samskara, it just happens. You get whatever you get weird cards. So, whatever we get as a self, the main thing is that that is something caught up in maya, even if it's a great self or bad hand. The one thing that both a great self and a bad hand give you is trouble, karma, dissatisfaction, the self attached to anything will be trouble. So enlightenment is letting go of that self, letting go of that clinging to a good card, a bad card, good hand, bad hand, good game, a bad game, win, loss. Enlightenment is letting go of that. And it is, you know, simply being. Being in a game. If you're in a game, you're in Las Vegas and you're playing poker, it's like, I'm playing poker and I'm outside of the game. I could play the game, but it's a game. I'm not invested in the game. If a gambler really wants to win, they're invested in the game. So it's playing poker where you're not invested in the game. So this is a school of enlightenment where there's a lot of students who have had a liberation. A liberation where they finally got to that point where they're playing the game and they realized, hey, wait a minute, this is just a game. I'm not invested in this game. This game, you know, is what happens in the world, but I see a big difference between me and the game. But having liberation is not the end. There's no end to enlightenment. This is a very important thing. You can't say, I had enlightenment and now it's over. It's the end. That's not true. Now, Vivekananda had a really powerful teaching at that point. So he studied with his great Guru of India, Ramakrishna. And when he became liberated, his first liberation, he said, the first liberation is where your life changes and then you're on a different trajectory. You go from karma to the path of karma, from the path of Dharma and everything's different after the first liberation. But even though it's different, it is still a path. There's still work to do. You know, and then we say, before enlightenment, chop wood, carry water. After enlightenment, chop wood, carry water. There's still everything to do. The world doesn't change, but your mind changes, your heart changes, your spirit, your consciousness changes. heightened, open, and empty. So enlightenment is not what you think, but there's so many people who have, in this school, worked beyond what you think to an actual liberation. And that liberation is something that is not the end goal. It's something that begins. So all the arhants of the school, not all of them, but everyone that I've had to sit down and talk to, they say, this was wonderful. This was enlightening. And at the same time, I see that it is a beginning. It's a new beginning. But that's what is enlightened wisdom. to have the recognition that it's a new beginning. Because if you think it's an ending, I got there, done it, checked it off my bucket list, then you're definitely in samsara. We're in a school of enlightenment where, yeah, I've definitely worked with an Enlightenmaster and attained liberation. I've been growing and learning and working on my liberation for years. have seen the struggles and enfoldments of enlightenment. If you read the life of Jesus Christ, it's not a life of everything was perfect. He's sitting on silk pillows and everyone's fanning him and giving him dates and grapes. That didn't happen for Jesus, time, it was difficult, it was struggle, and then pain and death. Enlightenment is not necessarily a happy story, especially in these times. So, with enlightenment, you have to be careful, focused, impeccable. The wonderful thing that we have here is we have a school and a structure where you develop yourself towards enlightenment and then when you're enlightened, there's a structure of how to move forward in a way where you don't go sideways and crazy. Enlightened people, liberated people, can be silly. They can be, you know, kind of what we would call out of balance with the world. They can seem with maturity, then they become wise. So Yogi Ram Sarakumar, in Tiruvannamalai, he was very enlightened and he seemed crazy to people. But eventually, because he was there for so long, people started to see patterns of positivity in their physical lives. Just hearing his words. Even though they didn't like it, something in his words spoke truth to them and then their lives got stronger, more balanced. They saw success in their business, in their families, in everything. So enlightenment is a positive influence. It's a spiritual influence. It's an influence that helps you in so many ways and it also comes out in a positive experience in your family, a positive experience in your work, your whole physical life from the enlightened teachings should go up. Your health, your diet, your family, your friends, everything should go So, yeah, this school is a school of enlightenment. If you've had liberation, I always say it's like getting your first degree black belt. And when you have that experience, you say, okay, I know my technique, I know my kata, I've reached a level where I can say, I'm a black belt in karate, which is cool. But there's more to go. You can't end there. That's a beginning. I remember a friend of mine got a black belt in karate. She had been working on it for 10 years. Got her black belt and then she was like, yeah, I got my black belt. I'm really strong. I'm all that. And then the next day, her teacher said, okay, now I'm going to teach you the most simple punch, the basic punch of our school. And then she said, of course I know this punch, I'm a black belt. So she's like, I can do the punch. And then her teacher, who was an eighth degree black belt, said, well, let me show you this, this and then she was like, oh my gosh, there's so much more to this punch than I ever knew. But I'm a black belt. I did it. I did it perfectly. But now someone who's a higher degree black belt shows me it's bigger than what I thought. So that's being open. Even if you get your black belt, even if you become liberated, it doesn't mean that you know everything in the world. You know what got you to a point of an effective technique, an effective awareness, consciousness. But then there's a recognition that there's something bigger there. So when we have a recognition and an awareness that this is a school of enlightenment, where liberated beings. But we're all still working. I mean, Buddha had at one point 500 arhants. And the 500 arhants didn't think, this is the end. I'm the best. They all worked within the system, the teachings of the Buddha, and they taught more, and they helped more people to be enlightened. So liberation is not the end. It's really the beginning. Yeah, yeah, and you know, Sahaja says, after, you know, like, after the first liberation, where, as Vivekananda said, everything changes and you go into a different mode, but it still what she calls enlightened attainment. So the first liberation is good. It is a liberation. It is a place where the self lets go. And it goes into...

0:27:04
It's gone.

0:27:05
Nirvana. Emptiness.

0:27:07
Shunyata.

0:27:08
It's gone. And then what happens? You come back and you're in the physical world. And then that's the big joke. You know, Buddha had that. He's like, whoa, now what If I am awakened in this world, then what do I do now? Do the Dharma. Do what is true. But, but, no, and.

0:27:41
Yeah, but,

0:27:42
No, and.

0:27:43
But, cut things off unless you're in a rap video. But ands bring things together, which is kind of yoga.

0:27:51
Yoga means you.

0:27:53
Alright, so, and,

0:27:55
what you have to do is you have to just bring your best. Bring care, bring awareness, bring your strength, bring your spirit. And there's where everything comes together. So when we're focused on our spiritual practice, whether we're enlightened or unenlightened. Actually, enlightenment and unenlightenment, it doesn't matter. So, enlightenment can happen at any time. It's very important to know. We have this very hierarchical view of enlightenment. But enlightenment can happen at any time. You can say, oh I missed my enlightenment and now I'm bothered. And then you could live the rest of your life saying I missed it. But that reminds me of Samuel L. Jackson. Do you guys know that actor? great actor. So he lived a long time wishing to be a great actor and never getting a part, never hitting success, seeing others in his same category being successful and yet he didn't get it. But at some point, and it was later in his career, he became good and great. He became some great actor. And then his career was massive. So here's the thing. If you have Okay. But then, if you get to that point where it works, you hit the home run, in your career, in your enlightenment, then it worked. So, the whole difficulty brought you, through the lesson that you had to learn, to get to the thing, whether it's career success or enlightenment, any kind of process. So this is what you have to do. Samuel L. Jackson wanted to be a superstar when he was 17, but it took him until he was 37. And guess what? He will not say, I made a mistake there, I should have done this wrong. I mean, all the things that happened with him, he was like, that's what taught me, that's what got me there. So, if you're not enlightened, then you're a certain age, because you finally worked it out, then that's good. So we have a reasonable structure in our school, that you know if you're enlightened, if you're an arhant, you should lead the way and you should show the way. You're like, I became enlightened so now I'm going to start telling Well that's a good idea, but also what actually works and what helps people. Yeah for people who are liberated we have all these new ideas. We say, guess what? I see things in a whole brilliant wonderful way. But you should be the examples of how to make things better, how to elevate people. Not just your idea, not just what's working for you at the moment, but what helps the group. I see this in martial arts all the time. You see some martial arts teacher who figures out something incredible in martial arts and then they say, wow, I want to show that to you. It's way too advanced for your yellow belts, right? No, you have to know, you have to kind of meditate your highest and then mature your meditation so that you can help others. Yeah, you can't, I never unload on you my highest meditation. What I do myself every morning, I don't do that to you. You would not understand the places where I go. But I can really help you if I understand where you're at. It's just like martial arts. If I'm teaching a yellow belt class or a green belt class or a brown belt class or a black belt class can be the greatest class in the world. That brings these white belts onto the way and they're going to be definitely fifth degree black belts in their lives if you do a good job. And then class, the same thing, and a black belt class, the same thing. So we have to have for each other—we have to bring the best and really develop each other. And if you're a black It's that we have, we do have a group of strong students. This is a school where there are arhants. But you have to be an impeccable arhant. I've seen so many bad senseis. And then there are the sensei's. You know, in America, there are bad sensei's. They're called a sensei. They might wear a belt that has 10 black belt stripes on it. But they're bad sensei's. So, in our school, we're working on being good sensei's. Strong sensei's. strong sensors, uplifting sensors. And any showdown can be a sensor. Be impeccable, never harm anyone, and only teach positive things.

0:36:10
And then you can bring people from white belt,

0:36:12
maybe all the way up to brown belt, or maybe even more. But the most important thing is that you are selfless. I had a lot of friends who were taking Kung Fu classes in Stanford, Connecticut.

0:36:51
And they were like, these classes are great.

0:36:52
And I was like, I've been doing Kung Fu since I was six. So I'm like, oh, I don't know what Kung Fu is like. And I go to the class, and the class, it was run by this African-American guy, and he was so cute because he would play like little Chinese music during different exercises. And then he would like burn incense, Chinese incense. And then he'd put up these like little Chinese scrolls that said Chinese things that no one could read, not even him. And we were like, wow, it feels good here. And he had just this really wonderful positive spirit. And it created a wonderful atmosphere. So there was a lot of students who loved his class. And also his Kung Fu was very inspired. He was spiritually inspired from his Kung Fu teacher. It was really beautiful. And I was like, wow. I'm like, I think I can beat him. But Kung Fu people have to say that to each other. I think I can beat your style. But I was like, wow. This guy has a lot of spirit and inspired a lot of people just to learn Kung Fu. And it was kind of cute, very American. It's just a really nice thing, but it really elevated people, made them train, give them spirit. Really nice. So, if you're an Arhant, you can use whatever, wherever you're from, everything in your way to help people.

0:38:56
Yeah, but help.

0:38:57
Help is the most important thing.

0:39:00
Because as a student,

0:39:02
We always want to have compassion and support. As a yoga leader, we always want to develop the yoga and the yogi. And as an arhant, we always want to help everyone. An arhant should, if you have your moment of liberation, you should be able to lift other people up, to help them. And the one rule of the arhat is never harm. If you are a yoga leader, you're going to make lots of mistakes. That's the yoga dojo. But when you're in the arhant zone, then never harm. When you harm, it is a compacted karma. Don't do it. Messes you up. Gets you in this whole thing for a hundred thousand incarnations, but you have to work that stuff out. You're okay, but if you mess up with someone, you're going to be in 100,000 incarnations of trouble. That's the wisdom of the Arhat. Yeah, I mean, I've read every book of the Buddha. 220 books. The Arhats shut up, shut down. Anytime they get a little help, they're like, I don't want to mess this up for you, but, you know, maybe you should stop being angry. And then they go, enough said. And they meditate. And then you have to read these books. You have to understand what arhants do. Read the books of the Buddha, the long, lame discourses. It's important for you to understand, because if you just think, well, I think everything's grand, I can do whatever I want, because I see all this cool stuff. On your own rate, but be very careful with other people. You might even have the intent to help other people. And you have to be very careful, Arhans, with that. Because you might have a great idea, and then if someone drowns in your great idea, you create very bad karma. And an arhant can still have karma. And you will just, see, you'll get all sensitive and you'll go through all sorts of things and that's what you have the way that you work with people. So, our hunts are not in a place of ultimate awareness. I know you feel that way. You know, we go into high states of mind, I'm in an ultimate state of awareness. And I'm like, well then come and talk to me, face me, because I will up you on your awareness and I will point out even with an arhant, an enlightened one, I've been doing this a lot longer. I school Shiva and Agni Kala. So, like, you think you know everything? There's no one who knows everything. I don't know anything. But I will school you. It will. I will show you. I don't know nothing. But that's part of what I know. But then, any arhant, you want to argue with me? You want to slay the Buddha because you heard there was a koan? Oh, if you come across the Buddha, I should kill the Buddha. I'm like, oh really?

0:44:06
Hmm, cool.

0:44:08
I guess that's what you gotta do. But, I run a dojo. Dojo etiquette. If you don't want to be in this dojo, you don't have to be. You can go and run your own dojo, or go follow some Aikido master. You can do anything that you want. But, maybe first sit in front of me and talk to me. Yeah. If you have, you know, if you have what it takes to go on and do your own thing, I'm totally supportive of it. But if you're a first degree black belt and you're talking to a fifth degree black belt, then it's like, oh, really good ideas. Well, let's get up on the map and see where... Oh my gosh, that just reminds me of my dream last night. Yeah, so, this is the important thing. With the Buddha Dojo, if you are an Arhant, you can work in the Dojo, but you can also leave. You can make your own dojo. You can go, you know, like this is a karate school. There's other teachers who do jiu-jitsu and Aikido. You can do that. You don't have to do anything here. You can leave. If you've already gotten you're an Arhant, and in this school, that's a fraternization, which is a good job you did it, you can leave. There's no reason to stay here unless you want to be here. So you can leave. But anyone who stays here, We have a high degree of impeccable conduct that we develop. And someone who wants to run away and do some random new thing that they found, go ahead and do it.

0:46:38
Enjoy.

0:46:39
Prego. You're welcome.

0:46:41
Oh, that was a Hawaiian song.

0:46:44
You're welcome.

0:46:45
Yeah, you're welcome. You're welcome. And thank you for the fish. So, yeah, but anyone who's going to be here, you have a strong focus. We have a dojo. I mean, like a dojo does a thing that a dojo does. You don't want to be part of the dojo? Do anything you want.

0:47:21
It's all okay.

0:47:22
I mean, from a beginner, to a Bodon, to a Shoron, to someone who's in the enlightened group, you can do whatever you want. This is not a cult. You go away if you don't like it. If you're angry, or if you're confused, any level that you're at, I'm like, I'd rather get rid of you people. You don't like it, then please go away. Please go away. Just go. And it's the funniest thing, because some enlightened people, they're like, oh, I have to kill the Buddha, because I read this one thing about, if you see the Buddha on the path, kill the Buddha. And I respect that Zen master, but if you try to kill me, you're all, kill your sensei. Oh, guess what? That's not gonna happen, because your sensei has fists and some chops. Yeah, that's what you guys are trying to do. Like, you disagree with me? There's the door. Wait, there's the door. Actually, there's both doors. I've got every door. I'm not trying to cheat people. You think you're enlightened and you're the best?

0:48:53
Go away.

0:48:54
You know, like this is a dojo. If you don't recognize me as a higher degree black belt and you think you know it all, I would say check yourself or come and talk to me. I will check you. I mean, I school Shiva. I school ugly color. And you think you know everything? Ha! That's the thing that enlightenment does. Like, little enlightenments. It's good. Sahaja, Asturias, they have wisdom. And so do I. And also, I'm building a school, like a dojo. So I'm not gonna have like random, reckless people

0:49:37
who say they're black belts in my school.

0:49:39
I'm like, no, if you wanna be in my school, you have to do our techniques that have helped so many, that has given so many careers, job yoga, mindfulness, meditation, that has brought so many people to liberation. So I'm like, you want to do your own thing, and you want to doubt me? You want to kill the Buddha? Then fight me in person. This is the thing. I mean, this is a really cool idea from Zen. Kill the Buddha. I'm like, well, if you want to kill the Buddha, I'm ready to fight. You're like, I don't like, I don't like Simbara because he's mean. I don't like Simbara because Simbara and disagree. I'm like, well, you can either disappear, which is retreat, but if you want to do this Zen thing called kill the Buddha, then guess what?

0:51:01
Try.

0:51:02
Because I will win. That's my job. This job that I do is bigger than this simple idea of, if you think there's a Buddha I'm gonna get rid of it in my mind if you act that way then you hit something bigger hmm that's what I'm telling even the enlightened students, the liberated students. You can get deluded and, you know, you have a teacher who's... I've been doing this for 20 years. Well, you guys are in the beginning. I've done this for 20 years. Sahaja says the same thing. Yeah. Shankara says the same thing. Pantanjali says the same thing. They're talking from a different level. All right, so, I can keep going, but I'm talking to my Enlightened students, and once you're enlightened, it doesn't mean that you're a master. It's just like being a black belt. And then you go to someone who is a higher master who can help you go on. And if you say, no, my Kyakuzuki is better than my master, I would say, if you just think that on your own, you are off in a different universe. But if you bring that right in front of me, every enlightened student, I'll say, let's put it to the test.

0:53:25
Put it to the test with me.

0:53:27
And guess what?

0:53:28
I'm ready.

0:53:29
And anything that you can dish out as your highest awareness, like a great Zen master, I will say, oh, problem. And guess what? Not that you're not liberated, but there's a higher liberation. I'm a higher degree black belt. I walk the walk, I talk the talk, and I hear you guys say things and do things and there's some errors. So, enlightenment isn't the end of the story. Enlightenment is the breakthrough to the next level. But there's still things to work on. That's what Sahaja calls egotistical liberation. I said, what, how can there be ego liberation? How can there be egotistical enlightenment? That doesn't make any sense. It's an oxymoron. And she's all, but it is true. And I didn't actually fall into this weird game. The moment we fell into liberation, we fell into yoga, selflessness, care, bodhicitta, the compassion focus. And was it fun? It wasn't the easiest thing, but we were a hundred percent in. Yeah, so ST3s who were there know that. They saw the first liberated beings of this lineage. They saw them just be completely selfless and work to the point of... we don't work to the point of, I don't know about you guys as yogis. I know true yogis. Maybe you guys are baby yogis or ego yogis. I did it only in my yoga until now I'm tired and I give up. I will stand in a horse stance till I die. I'll stand in a warrior pose till I die. That's what we do if you're a yogi.

0:56:37
It's not till you're comfortable,

0:56:39
till you think it's too ideal. It's till for real, till something happens. That's what we do in work too. That's what we do with our mind. It's not just trying. All right, so basically I'm just everyone is doing in yoga and if you're liberated well then prove it show it in yoga if you're liberated you're so great in your spiritual accomplishment of being high then do something great show it do something. Don't just be like, oh, you're fine and I'm free, whoo, it's great for me. Then wake up. If you're gonna be in this school, you're gonna be a yogi here, do something.

0:57:51
This is a dojo.

0:57:53
It's like, if I become good at martial arts, I can do something. Right? And if you're like, I'm a yogi and now I'm going to be all enlightened and go into a cave and just sit there and I have to be special. Then I have a mudra liberated, self-enlightened motherfuckers who don't give a shit about anyone else but yourself. This is, I'm not kidding, this is what Hawklin said. He found this guy, they were all friends, and his friend was like, fuck you.

0:58:50
Oh, let's take a picture of that.

0:58:52
You guys gotta realize, not happy with the bonons and the shirtons

0:59:02
and the enlightened people.

0:59:04
I'm not happy with you. Everything is bad. Everything is weak.

0:59:18
You guys have a mess.

0:59:20
We've come here to Hawaii, where, Hawaii is great. By the way, Hawaii is great. You come here, and if you can't handle this place, then go back to the mainland. If you can't be, I mean, this is like nature, and very, very beautiful nature, but if you don't have the attention to be here, go away, go back. To Mordor we will take you. Guess Ajin's not here, I didn't hear her laugh.

0:59:53
Go back. Don't be in Hawaii if it's too tropical and too warm and too much blue wonderful ocean.

0:59:54
Don't be here if you can't handle it. Yeah, so I'm just giving you guys a hard time, which is my job. I have to check everyone. I'll check enlightened people. I'll check the liberated. And if you prove me right, every time I check you, it will be the realization, when I give you a hard time, But I'm not happy. I see degradation in this group. I see things going lower, people going into more garbage, and even Arhant. I mean, I say that to Shiva, I say that to Agni Kala. I say, hey, you're full of shit and here's a bigger way. I'm not kidding around. And I am not kidding around. If I go to the desert to Anza Brago with you, I'm not kidding around. something that messes up your attention, where they bring you into conditions that could kill you. Like, hey, that's cool, we went to the Angel Mary girl, now let's go swimming in San Diego, where if there wasn't a lifeguard, four of you would have died. I have a problem with that. I don't care if they're spiritually like, oh, everything's great. I don't care. I care about an integrated, positive, structured progress that brings you to enlightenment. I'm following these teachings, the teachings that my teacher gave me, that work. So if you have a problem, even if you're enlightened or if you're a Bodon, I'm going to give you a hard time. I also have a lot of love. So I have that too. But it's gonna be stick and carrot. And guess what? I'm gonna stick that stick. I'm gonna carrot that carrot. Boom! Man, that's what I do. Yeah, I mean, I'm in the fight. Even, you know, even Arhats. It's great to be self-liberated, and it's good.

1:03:16
It's beautiful.

1:03:17
It's a wonderful state. And it's a beginning state to me. It's a first degree black belt, it's a big difference. Don't get all into yourself. And if you want to, you know, an Arhams, you want to kill the Buddha, I'm up for the fight. No, if you start to say, I have a different idea, I have a different attitude, go away. Go and open your own school. I've seen that happen in America so many times. Like, I've had a block belt in karate and Aikido, and now I've created my credo school where I'm a 10th degree grandmaster. And I'm like, wow, maybe you should stop eating hot dogs. I've seen this in America so many times. Oh, fat, they're fat. But they have some power, but they're fat. I'm like, maybe you should be a little bit more healthy. And you just made up your own martial art.

1:04:40
I mean, Bruce Lee did that too.

1:04:42
But he did it, he was the first one to do it. So he did it in a way of inspiration. Everyone else did it in a way of ego. Here's my general disposition of understanding. That was my little, like, Buddhist mantra, but it was a growl. If we growl, growl for enlightenment.

1:05:17
It works.

1:05:18
I'm not going to suffer fools anymore. Bodhi Woods was a where I was willing, it was created as a Bodhisitta dojo. It was a place where I was willing to work through and do Bodhisitta for people and teach them Bodhisitta and everything. And that's great, and I love Bodhisitta. I love that whole dojo program. But you need to understand, Ananda Loa is not that place. Ananda Loa is a place for, there's a lot of people who are at a very high level of spiritual progress where they're not trying to figure out their hardships and their karmas anymore. They're actually, they're like, oh I've figured it out, now I'm higher. I am also a person who is okay to be in a group

1:06:56
and to be in a community,

1:06:58
to be selfless and work with the community. So Ananda Loa is a place for that type of person. If you're not that type of person, if you have too much self or you have too much reaction, you have to go. The moment you show it to me, it won't be strike one, two, or three. It'll be strike one, you're out. If you don't show that you're a perfected saint, that's what we call a community person. I mean, if you need your own space, get your own space. This is a place where if you're coming here, this is a place to bring your best, bring your best. Now, if you wanted to live here and you don't have that, I say, go away. And if you want to come to our group meditations here, and you don't have that, I'll say, whoa, if you have some reaction at one of our Saturday night parties or something like that, I'll say, you can't come back here for one year. You live on the island, one year, you can't come here. If you want to live here and you have a bad attitude, you can't live here ever. So don't, if you want to come onto this holy space that I, when I first taught you, this is a place of joy. I wake up every morning, I look out at the ocean and all I feel is joy. I feel great the moment I wake up. If I have to deal with a bunch of students who are angry, confused, nasty, bad, or whatever, then I'll say, hey, anyone who lives here, go away. If you're bad, you're messed up, if you have some confusion, you don't have to be here. You don't need to be here. This is a place for advanced practitioners. This is a spiritual community. Bodywoods is a beautiful place. And we have three abbots who are developing people. It's a development place. It's a dojo. This is not a dojo. This is a temple where I live. And if you're not up to that level, get away. You want to come here on a party and then get angry or something like that, one year away. Cannot live here if you have any, if you can't do basic community and compassion and the regular stuff that you do in a community, get out of here, you're gone forever. So I know a lot of people signed up for here, but if you can't do it,

1:10:03
there's another place for you.

1:10:04
It goes like this. That other place. Look, look, I'm like contemporary. I'm contemporary. Wrathful. So don't mess up.

1:10:19
And our hunts don't mess up.

1:10:23
In our hunt, the wonderful thing is when you become liberated, you have this amazing spiritual experience and you're very high, you're very wonderful, and you're like, wow, everything's great. I know, it's there too. It's cute. But that's why you have me to help you get it together. Yeah, I remember, yeah, my teacher was like, so the thing about Jesus very enlightened Buddha. But he was very new and so he was open to a lot of trouble and in a very difficult place. Now if Jesus had a great master would say, don't do all those stupid things that are going to get you killed. And then Jesus would say, oh, okay, I'll follow my master's teachings. And then he wouldn't got killed, and then he would live till he's 70 or 80, and he would have given so many more teachings that would help the world, instead of drive the world into some horrible karmas for killing an enlightened being.

1:12:03
So, we can't do normal nature. We have to do students. It's like, you have to be impeccable.

1:12:11
You have to be selfless.

1:12:12
You can't make mistakes. You know, sometimes liberated people say, Oh, I have this really good idea, and I'm going to show people where I'm at and what I know. It could be harmful for people. I see this a lot in martial arts where some second degree black belt learns how to do a jumping, spinning, hook, kick, or something like that. They go, whoa, I can do it really good. And people see it and they go, wow. And then they go, let me show you guys how to do it. And everyone else falls down and breaks their leg, right? No, just because you can do it doesn't mean that you, I can do it, I can show everybody.

1:13:06
Get the fuck out of here.

1:13:07
Everyone has to develop themselves. Use the structure of development. Just because you can do some super amazing technique, doesn't mean that everyone can, even though you think they can, because you can. People have to develop themselves. That's why I have a school of development. And so, cool, you can do some cool technique, wonderful. I'm happy for you. Do it against me, I can do it too. I can do that and more. If you get so high in your mind that it's the best thing in the world. But you can't just do it for everyone. Oh my gosh, bunch of idiots. Ugh. Enlightened idiots. But that's what I call it now. But I never knew this idea because when I was liberated with Mandala and Sananda, we were so devoted to yoga and teaching that we were completely selfless. And if you're liberated and you're not doing yoga and you're not teaching, I would say maybe there's this thing that Sahaja taught that you are in enlightened egotism. I didn't know, I'd never heard that term before. But maybe you need to do yoga. Maybe you need to like prove it. Prove your liberation. Okay, you had a liberating experience. Do something with it. Be a Milarepa. Do something. Like show us. Prove it. Don't just sit there and go, yeah, I have an opinion. I'm like, wow, you want to kill a Buddha? If the Buddha's a sensei, it's hard to kill. Get out of here. So this is my commentary on what's going on, and I don't like it. I think it's weak. I think the Arhants are weak. And I know that you're all jolly and happy and stuff like that, but I think you're weak. I don't think you're strong, but prove your way, show your way, show that if you're an Arhant, show that you're the strongest in school. If you're a black belt in a karate school, should you say, nah, it's cool, I'm a black belt, I don't have to do kicks anymore, because I already know kicks. Are you kidding me? Come on. Or do you think that once you become enlightened, that's the end of everything? That's obviously not the truth. Right? So if you're in our hunt, then level up, show us. Everyone who's in our hunt should show us the best of the best. Wake up, do it, build it, make it strong. There should be something. I mean, if you want to prove in your school that second intention, sit there and complain. And your ideas of like your commentary on, well, I don't agree with Sambara. I'm like, if you don't agree, there's a door. There's a door over there. This is the door to Zen. Where's the door to Zen? Where's the exit? Everywhere is a door. Get out of here if you don't like this. And you can do whatever you want. You can have your whole ideas. Enjoy them. Yeah, first degree black belt. And, you know, sometimes that's what people have to do. And it's okay. But...

1:17:04
Ah...

1:17:08
Alright, well, let's see. The last thing that I'd like to do is to talk about the Buddha Dojo. Very simple, and this is something that supports random, rogue, arhants. That the Buddha Dojo is a powerful thing and that you can do whatever's empowering for you within the dojo. So if you're going to a class and you get your black belt in a certain dojo, this is a thing that we do a lot in SKA, for example. You have your first degree black belt. And then you say, but I want to go, so I got my first clear black belt, let's say in New York. And you say, but I want to go to somewhere way outside of New York where there's no other teachers. I want to go there and I want to create a dojo. And then sensei says, fine, if that's what you wish to do. And then you go there and you create a dojo. You're a first degree black belt, but you are the head of the dojo. And then you can bring all the teachings from the main teacher and you can create a whole school and black belts. It's a very empowering thing. And I know that some of you wanna do that. And I think you should do that if that's what you wanna do. So, this is a model of Buddhist monasteries that worked its way into martial arts schools, and I like to think of it more in terms of martial arts, where you've got your black belt and you want to go and do something else. But if you do that, do it with the structures of the place where you've got your black belt and do that, and powerful experience. Like my teacher has lots of students and he taught me all this stuff and then I said, now that I learned this, I want to teach this to people and that's why you are all here and you can do the same thing. This is what we see in the Tibetan Thangkas of the Buddha in the middle giving his teachings to a big group of people. And then these different arhants going on teaching in other places all over the world. And the different teachers have these different specialties. I remember once I was, so I have a black belt in Taekwondo and I was at the dojo. There's this one teacher who also had a black belt in Aikido. And Aikido is ridiculous, because it's all like, grab my wrist. And Taekwondo is all like, I'm going to kick you. Taekwondo is kicking. Aikido is wrist locks in general. And so we're doing Aikido. This guy keeps on talking about wrist locks. how he brought his Aikido into an understanding to enhance people's kicking. So anything that's your own personal interest, your own Dharma, you could bring it into a system, It enhances it. So there's not a separation in anything that you have learned or became aware of or where your power comes up. It all comes together if you do it right. But if you don't want to do it right, you want to be part of the dojo, you use these structures and you bring everything in your attention and your awareness into how to make these structures more enlightened

1:21:51
for people.

1:21:52
If you have a better idea, you want to create your own religion, spiritual following, that's

1:21:56
cool.

1:21:57
I have no problem with that. to work with people who want to work with this system. All right. This is an important teaching because I'm talking to Bodons and Shodons and also the liberated students, which I think I should be able to talk to with everyone. But this is our, what we call, once you get to be a Bodhan, this is where you get to maturity, where I can give you a little bit of hard time. If it's the Buddha Dojo, I'll just be like, oh, let me tell you, meditation's good, Yeah, so Ananda Loa, this place, is only a place, this is a higher place than Bodhi Woods. Bodhi Woods is good. It's a great, powerful place, a dojo. It's a place for learning. as a Bodhisitta dojo. And it was that elevated thing so much and became so powerful. And so everyone there needs to work on that. And there's three enlightened abbots there who are like, hey man, we're gonna work through all these things with you. Hearts are open, giving the best attention, doing an impeccable job. They've also took it, you know, they've taken Bodewoods up a step from even when I was there. So I'm like, man, I love it. Good job, wonderful. That's what I want our Hans to do, it's amazing. But here, it's a different story. Here, if you bring your mess, I don't want it because this is a different place. When I created this place, I said, this, I understood this place and I said, this is a place of the yoga of joy. Now if you live here and you don't have joy, you're out. If you come here for a party or meditation or Tai Chi or anything and you don't have joy, I can come to you at any time and say, I don't like you. Go away for a year.

1:24:51
That's my song.

1:24:53
Go away for a year. No, I'm not kidding. Like, I'm not going to suffer fools here. This is not a place where you can work on it. This is a place to bring it. That means that you bring your best here. I'm not going to have people come here and have a bad time and try to figure stuff out. Oh, if you need to figure stuff out, figure it out over there or back on the mainland. Work that out, but this is my spiritual temple. And this is this level of practice. You can come here in the best state of mind and then you're going to be able to connect with and access where I'm coming from. But I'm not coming down to you here at all. If you have a mess up, I'm like, well, then you need to figure it out for a year somewhere else.

1:25:50
And if you wanna live here,

1:25:51
I know a lot of people signed up to live here. If you wanna live here, don't make a mistake. Like come up to this level. That's the way it rolls. Because this is not necessary for you to be here. You can only be here if you have a really high degree

1:26:11
of attention.

1:26:13
That means that you're really good in your job. You're really able to work from Hawaii, right? And also make really strong rape. And that you also are mindful, you have compassion, and you can work in a community. Because if you can't, I'll say, oops, that won't work for me. And I'm not like, I don't take it personal. I just see if it doesn't work for you, you've got to go.

1:26:49
That's this place. This is the place of the highest tonal of spiritual practice in this school.

1:26:50
And it's not a place of trying to develop yourself. It's a place of I've attained enough compassion, awareness, care, mindfulness to be in a group, to be in a community, to appreciate this place and a place of enough personal power where you can afford to live here in Hawaii. That's this place. If you lose your job and you can't afford to live here, I'll send you back to the mainland. Go back to the mainland, go find a job. But if you have a job and you have selflessness, then this is the perfect place to go. Anyone in Hawaii, it's like you might not live on this property, but you might have a house. And if you lose your job and you don't have income, I'll say, well, you could keep trying to get a job from Hawaii, but because you've lost your energy, you have to go back to the mainland. There's more tonal power in Pacifica So, if you lose a job and you don't have a job for four months here, after four months, automatic, go back, find a place to live, and you better find, four months, you're back. You've got to go back. So, if you can't keep a strong career in Hawaii, which is a really high level of personal power, if you can't keep that for four months, you're back on the mainland because then that's where you have more support. If you have a bad ever visit this place, I will say, you do it once.

1:28:51
You come here one Saturday night,

1:28:54
drink too much wine and go sideways. I will say, you cannot be here for a year. Even if you live on the island, I'll say, I don't wanna see you for a year on this here. I could meet with you personally somewhere else but you will not come on to Nandaloa. This is a spiritual sacred place. All right um but basically just to summarize The arhants are weak. I think the arhants are, you know, I would never see this myself, but as Sahaja said, there's this thing called egotistical enlightenment, and there's also this thing where you kind of just go off and do whatever you want. And I would say, wow, that's interesting because all of the liberated people I know, they are very focused on yoga. And if you're not, you just kind of do whatever you want, then I don't know what you're doing. And I want to see you be the leaders of compassion, the leaders of yoga, the leaders of impeccability.

1:30:34
Everyone in the school should,

1:30:35
they don't even know who you are. They should be like, wow, that person inspires me. That person does yoga, that person is compassionate, that person is, their meditation is strong. So if you're an arhant, shouldn't you be the spiritual leader, leading everybody up, instead of a spiritual person who says, oh, I feel sensitive, I don't like people. Are you that weak? So I school Agni Kala and Sheila, I'll school you. And if you think, you know, you want to kill the Buddha, then let's have a one-on-one. If you're angry, you know, I'm not angry, but if you're doubtful, you just like, I'm like, you can either go, but you can go. You can retreat without even facing me, but you should also sit with me. A first-degree black belt is not a fifth-degree black belt. If you think you're all that, then that's kind of cute and fun. But if you have some, you know, like liberated people have to figure out stuff too. That's why Jesus had to go to the desert. That's why Moses had to go find a burning bush. He's sitting there with like Clinton's deal, he'll, this fence not gonna light.

1:32:03
Oh, it lit.

1:32:06
He's all, bam, gone. So anyway, but yeah, I think that in general, the Buddha Dojo was supposed to be something that brought us into strength, individual strengths, but people are very diversified. And if we're diversified in location, it shouldn't diversify us in spirit. And, you know, I'm going to go to California to meet the people there. Europe is actually quite strong because they're used to me coming once in a while, but Americans are like trying to figure it out. Americans are like, oh sort of in Hawaii or in California so I feel separation. I'm like oh come on guys like get to where we're trying to get to. But then all the Bodons, very confused people. Showdons, I can't become enlightened. No, you're Samuel L. Jackson. Yeah, I want them to die, and I hope they burn in hell. You guys know that? That was Samuel L. Jackson. You guys have got to look that one up. It's so funny. That's the best thing. I mean, the other thing, he's like, Yoda, I think we need to tell... You know, I'm like, oh, no, that's not good. He's all, he's like, Yoda, I think we need to tell the council, the Senate, that the Jedi Knights don't have the scene and that there might be a Sith Lord. I was like, uh, that's not Samuel L. Jackson. Yeah, I want them to die on a host of burning hell! That's Samuel L. Jackson. You gotta look at, that's Pulp Fiction. Now, I remember when Pulp Fiction came out, Romer and Brashear was like, yeah, you guys should see that movie. So I was like, OK. Then I was in San Francisco. I was on business, but I was with my mother. I was like, Mom, let's go watch this movie.

1:34:35
Recommended.

1:34:36
And then halfway through the movie, my mom's like,

1:34:39
this movie's horrible.

1:34:41
She's all, let's get up and leave.

1:34:43
I was like, what?

1:34:44
I was like, this movie is horrible. I was like, but we can't get up and leave. Then she stayed. She didn't like it. Alright, so anyway. Oh wow, I found my little growl. Yeah, I used to growl a lot at people. So I'm not pleased with what's going on. Ananda Loa? Bad conduct comes here. Students who have like... So I don't like the conduct here, but I've seen students, even outside of here, with so much anger, negativity, and enmity. I'm like, whoa, hey, this is not the teachings, this is not what it's about. That's you. And if that's what you want to do, just disappear, just go away. Just go away. So much negativity in this group. This is a time where there's separativity. I mean, we're in a pandemic, right? So there is separativity. But if all you can do is turn everything into negativity, then don't even come onto the Zoom call. Just Just disconnect, just go away. And then on the other side, our Hansu think, you know everything. I'm like, if you know everything, have a one-on-one with me. I'm totally willing to do it. I can test you for sure. I can show you a high level of Samadhi. And I can say, can you come up to here? I'm pretty skilled at it. I'm like, you want to come up to this level? Oh, good, if you can do that, come up to this level. I can meditate very well. I can bring it up and I can see where you're at. So if you have any idea that you're better and that your ideas are stronger, that you're at a higher state, then if you're an Arhant, then come to me, let's do it. Are you kidding? You think I'm not gonna notice?

1:37:18
It's just silly, you know,

1:37:19
like I got my black belt, so I'm as good as my sensei who's an eighth degree black belt.

1:37:24
No.

1:37:24
You know, I might not be giving you a hard time right now, but I definitely am showing the way. And if you as an Arhant, he says, I'm a black belt, I know everything. I'm like, there's way more than that. And if you feel that way, then test yourself. Come to me, you know it all, test yourself. Because I guarantee, and you'll see, I'm not kidding, you're in our hunt. I'll say, look, here's how you go higher. That's how they keep teaching. Like, does a first-degree black belt quit a dojo once they get their black belt? Oh, I got karate, I'm a black belt, that's it, I give up. I mean, a lot of them do in America, but they don't develop the next level. And so the next level is where a higher-degree black belt can share more so you can get stronger. It's not just the first-degree black belt. A lot of people, ah, I've got my first-degree black belt, now I quit. I'm like, well, probably get your ass kicked in a street fight. I'm all like, I'm not kidding. Just because you get a black belt doesn't mean that you're a great fighter. It means you're a martial artist, but a fighter is bigger than that. All right, so we're heading into the equinox right now. These are the equinox teachings. The equinox teachings forebode to me the same good. It's not going in a good direction. I think that in general, there's more disunity. Even though there's some people who are in Samadhi states, I think you've got to check yourself. And if you think your samadhi state is so high, come and sit with me, I'll bring it higher."

1:39:47
I'm not kidding.

1:39:49
You think your samadhi is the highest samadhi. I'm like, sit with me. I know where you're at, and I'll bring it higher. That's what I do. You're a first-degree black belt. I'm a fifth-degree black belt. So of course I can bring it higher. Don't be an idiot

1:40:06
That's the funniest thing

1:40:08
So I have to tell you guys this otherwise, you don't know But I also want Bodons and Chodons and Arhants to know this because You know, it's like this. This is what makes it a living teaching. This is something that everyone can understand. Everyone can feel this. All right. But the Buddha Dojo is opening, and it's opening because we have to have a little bit more discipline, a little bit more care, a little bit more humility, and a little bit more of understanding that we're not at the end of the universe. It's so cute. Sometimes you have a good meditation, you go, I figured it all out. And then you go, oh, but the next day I'm suffering or I'm hurting. Well, then there's still some more to figure out. a transmission up where we go beyond places that were stuck. Yeah, wonderful thing, very powerful for Bodons, brings you up so much higher into the advanced system. That's why I like Bodhans to be here. And I'm really, really talking about enlightenment. I'm talking about enlightenment to Shantons who are on the verge of enlightenment. And I'm talking about enlightenment to enlightened beings. To Arhants who have had that liberating experience. So I think this is very, very, very powerful. I think Bodhans are on the fast track to enlightenment. And I think that Arhants are liberated and on the slow track to spiritual elevation. So I want to give a transmission, and this is a structure where we have beginners, we have intermediate, we have Bodhans, we have Shodhans, and Arhants can teach and open and have so many structures. You know, if you look at JKA, Japanese Shodhkan, it's like they have a school that opened with And then Funakoshi had different archons, different great black belts, and they opened schools everywhere else. And then they still were teaching Funakoshi. And then after Funakoshi died, then there were new senseis that taught shodokan, Funakoshi karate. This is the kind of structure that we develop. Buddhism has a lineage, but there's a stronger kind of lineage in martial arts. It's just a tighter tonal. So I try to focus this more on that kind of tonal. That's what I'm talking about. And this is the level that I want to bring us up to. I want to make more aware. All right, thank you very much. Now in the end, we're going to meditate. We're going to sit for one song. This song on the third eye. Just one song. And I know this has been a trial because I'm actually giving you guys a hard time, which brings a lot of karma. But we're going to blow through that and I'm going to be showing a higher condition for Bodons, the way up, Shodons, the way through, and Arhats, the way to let go more for things to raise up all at the same time. Okay, so sit nice and straight, soft focus on the third eye and let's begin.

1:45:11
You You So, So Oh, So so So, So So So So You're my hero Alright. So, we have a saying, it's a new day in its new way. But you have to let go of the old ways. If you're still clinging to old concepts, old ideas, old karmas, then you are limited

1:46:49
and out of whack with what needs to happen now. So it's a new day and it's a new way. So if you learn this lesson, you let go, whatever level you're at, you let go of ideas, you let those things shatter and drop. And then you experience new awareness, new capability, a new understanding. So this is what we must do. And this is the direction, and I'm going to see it through, whether you're on board or not. But this is the direction of this school. If you're not on board, then you can go somewhere else. Or you could let go of that stuff and you can resubmit yourself to a higher empowerment. And I do say submit, and then you get into a program that has a stronger power. Or test me. Test me on your meditation, test me on your martial arts. If you want to test, we can test. Otherwise, you know, I know high meditations, and it's good, but if you think that you're off in your own world, okay. You can go off in your own world. Or you can be part of something stronger, that has a stronger structure, that you can develop yourself further. You don't have to do anything. You can do whatever you want. But my school is definitely a school that has structure, that you have to participate in and grow yourself in, like a regular dojo. So many Americans, I got my black belt in karate and now I quit karate and I don't do anything else. So I'm like, a lot of people do that. But this is a school where, well, you got your black belt and you gotta go for your second of your black belt. You can't just sit around and go, well I'm a black dog. All right, that's enough.

1:55:48
Thank you.

1:55:51
Listen, learn, do it, otherwise we'll see what happens. for you if you don't follow the teachings you go you could say you go for you if you don't follow the teachings you go you could say you go your own way but you go your own way. Terrible. All right well thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
