0:00:00
All right, hello everyone. And thanks for joining me for a Maha Samadhi celebration. We're going to begin with meditation. So sit up nice and straight and bring the focus to the heart.

0:00:20
Let's begin.

0:00:21
Thank you. Oh, so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the the so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, All right, wonderful. We're here together for a maha samadhi celebration. But what is maha samadhi? Maha means the great, and samadhi means perfect meditation, you can call it. Samadhi means the high enlightened state,

0:02:37
so the great high enlightened state. Now Maha Samadhi is something that has come about from Masters who have been able to describe, even though they were considered to be great enlightened Masters, they were saying, well As long as I have a body, I'm still tied to the karmic realm. But if I bring my samadhi, my enlightened consciousness, to a higher condition, it would be a condition that is higher than this physical realm, and then my body wouldn't even be a factor. So the body is kind of like an anchor into this world for a very high spiritual being. And so it's good because it's something that holds them down. So Maha Samadhi is when you let go of any attachment to this finite world and go completely into a Samadhi state. absorption into full, complete liberation. They call it the final, the highest liberation. Now mahasamadhi is also associated with an ability, a siddhi, and it's an ability to decide when you want to die and consciously go into death. That means that you say, oh, you know, sounds like it's time right now, and you sit there and you have this ability to go beyond your life into a very, very high spiritual state. So this is an ability. It's a real thing. In the late 1800s, there was a very famous enlightened master, Lahili Mahasaya. And about ten years before his death, he said, my work will be done in 10 years. And he said, so on this day, he named the day of the month and the year, and he said, that's when I will die. And people are like, oh my gosh, he's going to die. And so then it got close to that day, and they were like, okay, let's keep him safe and make sure he's well hydrated and everything, vitamins or whatever. And everything's fine, everything's going fine in the day, he's not traveling or anything. They made sure he's not going to go on the road or anything. He had many, many, many, many students. So they were very concerned. And then he was just sitting there on the ground and then he said, now is the time. And they're like, there's no like, you know, lightning clouds, and he stood up and he turned around in circle three times, sat back down, and then in a minute, he was dead. So he had this ability to leave his body. This is what people often call Maha Samadhi, that ability of a master to consciously leave the physical plane and go into the highest Samadhi. So, that's a possibility. That's the way. Now, generally, there's been a lot of enlightened masters. And whether they chose to leave consciously or were able to do that, or whether they really left the body to go to the highest, highest level of enlightenment, we don't know. So we just generally say, if there was an enlightened... Here's our colloquial way of American Buddhism. If there was a master, an enlightened being, and they died, we say the day of their death is their Mahasamadhi. So today is the Mahasamadhi of Ram Rampose, my teacher. That's why we're having a celebration. So why do we celebrate that? Isn't that bad? No, it's good. Just like the Christians, they came up with this really cool thing. You know, they're really into, you know, Christmas, Christ's birthday, but then there's also Good Friday. Pretty good. So it's good. And Good Friday was the day that they murdered Jesus on a cross. A horrible death, but still good. Even though he had a bad death, they put a little spin on it. They're all, hmm, a little while later, they're all, we shouldn't have done that, maybe. But let's call it good. But actually, even beyond their reckoning and trying to put a spin on it. It is good. An enlightened person, even if unfortunately, they die a death like Jesus, it's still powerful. So, we celebrate the birthday of an enlightened being because there's power in it. They were born to this world, bringing a new teaching, a new expression of spirit and liberation. And that's a beautiful thing, so we celebrate that. But in Buddhism, we celebrate, if the master has passed, the enlightened one has died, we celebrate their death day, and we call it the Maha Samadhi. And the death day is a very powerful day. So these are days of power. It's the day of birth and the day of death. And the day of death might sound like a bad thing, but that is the culmination of that being's life. So that enlightened teacher, at the time of their death, they had brought their full cycle of their teaching. So it is actually not only a cessation of their life, but it is also the fulfillment of their dharma to be brought into this world. So the birthday is good, and the death day is good. So both days are good days to celebrate. We're really good with Christmas, but you know, Good Friday just kind of goes by. Well, Easter we're going to get some like Cadbury chocolate eggs or something, right? So Easter comes a little bit after. Jesus was dead, then he came back. You're like, whoa, isn't that like what zombies do? Jesus's powers is like, that's the zombie apocalypse. It's not the vaccine. Anyway, so the death day of a teacher, we call it the Mahasamadhi, an enlightened teacher. And it's a very powerful and beautiful day. So today is Ramana Peshpe's Mahasamadhi. Because he is the root guru, the root guru of our school, he created the systems of our school. Before him there were no systems, no structure, no way. But our meditation and the subtle practices, the practices in the first attention and also the structures of the second attention where we develop our meditation that supports us as meditators. These are constructed expertly by my teacher, Ram Ravishe. So there's a spirit to meditation. Like you could just walk out into a field and sit down and say, I'm gonna just kind of figure out meditation on my own. And you can. And it's a nice thing. You know, I read a little in a book, saw something on the web, you know, I downloaded Calm, it's an app, you know, and I was kind of interested so then I'm going to go do it on my own. That's an idea, that's okay, but there's a spirit to meditation, which is the main part of meditation, we say that it has a second attention structure. So you can go and try to figure it out on your own, and that's okay. But if you go to a system, a school that has that spirit, then you can learn a lot more. It's kind of like when Daniel-san got into his first fight with Johnny, you guys remember? Yeah, yeah, my friend Daniel, my other friend Johnny, they started getting into fights. I was like, oh, I'm so sorry. So the karate kid. After he got, after the protagonist, the protagonist, got into a fight and lost, he had taken a couple karate classes in New Jersey, but he really was like, you know, trying to learn from a karate book that he had. He was sitting there reading the book and trying to learn new moves and new kicks so that if these bullies messed with him again that he would be able to defend himself. And you know, then Mr. Miyagi walks in, you know, he's just the guy fixing the apartment, and then he's like, oh, learning karate from a book, you know, and that's the difference. So if Daniel-san only learned from a book, he would have learned very little, but he would have done it on his own. It's like getting an app. Now we all have an app. The app's all kicked and you're all, oh, okay. And we're way ahead in technology now. So you'll have an app that tells you to do something and you'll try. But the thing that the app or the book or the YouTube video doesn't get across is the spirit. So when you walk into Mr. Miyagi's dojo, right, and he's teaching you, that's what the story is there, he's teaching him something bigger than just a technique. He's teaching him the spirit of the art. And in meditation, the spirit is very important. It's not something that you can read a book, get a nap, and then become radically transformed through meditation. It might be okay. It's not a bad idea. I mean, it's all good. But if you want to be that difference between the Daniel-san who took a few classes and was going through a book, or the all-valley champ, then you need the Mr. Miyagi. So Ram Rinpoche was the Mr. Miyagi of our school. He taught me to wax on, wax off, and all that stuff. And there's a spirit to it. There's a wisdom to it. And there's a spirit to it. It's a way of the heart. And it's a way where it's, you know, so Mr. Miyagi, he came from Okinawa and he had certain traditions and beliefs. There's a certain structure in the way that he taught, even though he did things that were a little different, like clean my car and paint my fence, right? And sand my deck. So he adapted to the moment, the situation, but there were ways where he was able to get his student to develop himself. And there was, even though it was like, okay, clean my car, this is an ancient karate spirit, and there's these deep structures in it. There's structures of awareness. Some master came up with these techniques, some people developed this who had great, great, great mastery and skill. Someone who comes up with a martial arts system is a little different. They're a little different. You might say, well, I watch MMA and I'm super strong and I think I can just do things. But there are people who have a skill level that far exceeds yours. And then they might not look like much. They might look like a very normal average person, but they might have a very high skill level. And they can fight, and they have this ability to win. And they have all of these intense structures. So back in the early days in Japan, there was Funakoshi, the founder of Shotokan Karate. And this guy was like 4'10", and like 92 pounds. No, really, he was really small, really thin. But he had power. And so he could go against much bigger opponents and dominate them. He had a skill level that was very, very, very high. He was a champion. He was like the greatest martial artist. He was the best around. And he was so good. So someone couldn't say, well, I think I'm okay by myself. And he's like, no, I could easily beat you. Now, he developed from his mastery, these skills and abilities and structures in order to teach people and make a very successful karate system that he's taught to many, many people throughout the world. And he's been able to develop that because he had that mastery. He was that good. So, Ram Rinpoche, like Funakoshi, was that good. He was very, very, very advanced, very, very, very strong in his abilities. But he was also like Mr. Miyagi, because he also would look at what's around and say, well, let's apply it to what this world is like. We're not in Okinawa anymore. You know, we're in America. So let's apply it to here, now, this world." And it was new and appropriate, and it made the powerful teachings accessible, and it was really wondrous. So Ramana Rinpoche was a funakoshi and Mr. Miyagi all wrapped together in an American Buddhist teacher. And these are the teachings that I mastered and I teach you. So meditation in all its subtlety and all of the... meditation is the foundation of our practice and it is the primary practice. Enlightenment comes from meditation. So meditation is very key. There's so much spirit in our meditation. So when you meditate with us, if you just went, like, I got a nap and I went and meditated in the field, you'll have a certain experience. And you meditate in the Buddha Dojo, you meditate with me, it's different. You're entering into a greater field where there's a lot of support and a lot of structure. And if you do it, you can become a meditation master. So there's just a great amount of spirit in our meditation. I learned it from my teacher, and that's why I share it with you. There's an analogy where in Zen they would say you have to get the right log. If there's a flame and you put that log, that properly prepared log, next to the flame, it will catch. So if you're interested in meditation and enlightenment, this is a place where there's that flame of spirit, and this flame has been passed from my teacher to me. And if you're interested, you get a little closer and then that flame ignites you. Then you get burnt.

0:25:22
Ouch!

0:25:23
That seemed like a good idea as I was getting closer to it. No, but that's the flame of spirit and you ignite. And something that was not there is there. And if you went out into a field, you could be in a field all day. But you've got to go where the fire is, the fire of spirit. And the spirit that I learned from my teacher, I didn't understand at first. I was interested, and then there was a lot of work to do. And then little by little, I find myself, and I saw that there's power in applying yourself to yoga. There's power in following the teachings. And I thought, wow, it's wonderful. It's powerful. It's bright. I did it step by step. And my teacher always said the same thing as Buddha, don't just take it on faith what I say, if I give you a teaching don't just believe me, try it and if it works for you then great, if it doesn't work for you try again. Look at it differently. This is a school where I have been with a master, and I learned the structures and the spirit from the master, and I share it with you. And that's why we're having a celebration today today for Ramana Pesha. This is the day of his mahasamadhi. And it's a good day. I wanted to share a couple of stories of my experience with my teacher. One is, I think, very pivotal. So, I mean, I talk about this a lot. I was very, very into Kung Fu teacher. And I was also going to university to get a degree and I wanted to be a school teacher because I knew that being a Kung Fu teacher. Okay, so I was like, okay, so if I can teach fourth grade, I want to teach kids. I thought that would be a fun world. Hanging around kids, goofing around, teaching them. So I was like, I want to teach fourth graders. That'll be super fun. And it's like South Park, the fourth grade years. It's like the last 10 years of their series. And anyway, so I was really interested in that. And then I was like, okay, so I'll have my day job, you know, from 7 to 3.30. Then I would do Kung Fu teaching and then acupuncture. And that's what I was into. I was really into that. I met Ram Rinpoche and I started studying with him and I was like, And I'm going to follow this spiritual path. And then after maybe a year and a half where I knew him, he started saying, I really care about you guys. And so I want to make a recommendation for you to learn computer programming. And he was very sincere. And he knew something when he said what he said. And I was like, but I have all these other ideas. Like, I'm a Tai Chi Kung Fu person. I'm a, you know, acupuncture guy. I hate math and computers don't work when I push their buttons. So I had a definition that I'm not that computer math person. But he said, he was sincere, he said, I care about you and this is why I'm telling you this. And he meant it so much that you could feel it in the room. It felt like heart, love. And I trusted that. I had a hard time with it. It didn't happen automatically. It might have taken me three or four or maybe even five months. And I'm like, I want to do Kung Fu.

0:31:15
Right, acupuncture.

0:31:17
Wrong spot.

0:31:18
And I was like, no, I'm bad at this.

0:31:22
I can't do this.

0:31:23
And that's not me. I'm Tai Chi acupuncture guy, which I was really good at. I'd been doing it for years and I loved it. And yet, when he talked about doing computer programming, which is just like this super boring thing but he had so much heart in that. I remember the first time I was sitting with him in a satsang and he said it and it had such an impact where at least I considered it for the next three or four or five or six months. And I struggled with it because I had many ideas. I was good at martial arts and acupuncture. I thought that would be the thing I wanted to do. That I could teach some kids how to draw crayons and spell Munchie. Here's how you spell Munchie. Yeah, that was just like, how hard is it to educate American kids? It's gotta be pretty easy. Just give them pretzels and lollipops and... Here's how you spell munchies. would have created this amazing culinary, you know, they would have learned many words. They're like, they were like a mousse bouche. Oh, I'll teach them French at the same time. Anyway, so that satsang, where he meant what he said, opened a new dharma for me. And it was something that I struggled with, but I listened to. And finally, I said, okay, I'm going to leave who was learning to be a teacher. I had a scholarship to be a teacher in the San Francisco Unified School District, and I was definitely going to do that. And I left that scholarship, and I left that, and I went to the six-month boot camp. That was pivotal for my life, because if I had stuck to what I liked and what I wanted, I would be behind. My whole career has been a career of selflessness, because I followed a way that I didn't want to follow. I was not into that. I thought I would be bad at it and I thought sitting behind a desk, a cubicle, pushing buttons on a computer would be boring. So I let go of all of that. And when I did, I was like, okay, I let go completely and now everything great is going to happen and then I completely failed. The boot camp kicked me out two weeks before graduation because I was doing a bad job. I wasn't used to like thinking and using my mind. I was a daydreamer and I was bad at math and I needed to continue. So that's the thing, if you're bad at it, it doesn't mean that you're bad at it. means that you can do great things. If you're too far into being a doctor and saving people's lives, well that's okay. Or anything. If you're making enough money and you're really into it, that's okay. That can be yoga. But here's the big hope. For those of you who are open to it, there's a yoga, there's enlightenment, there's structures created in this system, in this school. From the funakoshi of our school. Brahmarinpushkha, a little taller. So, then I failed completely. And I said, wow, I tried and I failed. Well, don't give up. If you give up, it's over. And I had the encouragement of my sangha to keep going. And I kept going. And then I became a really top technologist on Wall Street, coding trading systems. And I also coded those credit cards that keep rejecting you. Sorry about that. Yeah, stuff like that. So I really, really, really went for it and became successful. And I started, and I learned all sorts of new technologies. And I created a successful consulting company. So I grew from that one meeting. And it was wonderful.

0:37:56
There's another story I wanted to tell.

0:38:00
I think that story is kind of important because this is all about the physical world. I was not well off. I met this teacher. I was going into, you know, I was going to be a San Francisco teacher who has to live two hours away because he can't afford rent in San Francisco kind of thing. And then I was also going to teach the thing. I was going to do my passion. I guess what I do, we do Tai Chi here every morning. So I do my passion. It's not even a passion anymore. It's just, it is a good, powerful thing. So I wanted to teach and share in a certain way, but I followed the teachings and then I was able to expand everything that I ever wanted for my limited ideas. I was able to expand them to new horizons and more beautiful, fantastic ways and be successful in my career, in my business. And also, I didn't even talk about, I was a martial artist and I followed Ram Rinpoche's teachings on martial arts because he was a grand master. He would beat Funakoshi and Mr. Miyagi at the same time.

0:39:38
He's like, huh?

0:39:40
Oh.

0:39:41
I'm not kidding. So that was the physical. I just want to give a little story about the non-physical. Dharma's teaching, Dharma from, who was a compatriot of mine, who studied with Ram Prasad for, you know, the same time that is me almost, a little less, and who is in Santa teaching this system, this lineage. So he gave some, he, so this is for kind of the higher level, it's not the free class or the master class, it's for some where some of my fellow students, were students of Ram Rinpoche, give teachings. And one of the things he taught about was an experience that he had in the Anza-Borrego Desert, a time where we went out and we were with our teacher, and Ram Rinpoche was not only a good meditator and a good advisor of career paths, right, likelihood, right, he's also very, very, very magical and his magicalness was one of the things that got people so excited and also got them interested to say, well, if that guy can do this, maybe I should listen to him. So we were in the Anza-Borrego. He would take us to the desert in like kind of southeast of San Diego, like very close to the Mexican border. And there's this beautiful desert there. Many of you have been there with me, and you have seen that I have learned these very magical things from Ram Rekhusei, and I've learned them all from him. And so, the times where, if I turn into this ball of light. These are things I learned from my teacher. Just like I learned from my karate teacher how to break a board with a punch. I learned this from my teacher. And my students, my advanced students are learning this from me. However, a lot of the times when I do the cities, these mystical teachings in these places of power like Manzaburago or Kilauea Mauna Loa, when I do these things, I am very adept at drawing your attention into the higher astral dimensions and the higher causal dimensions. So it brings you out of the physical. And I'm very good at that because that's actually easy. But what Ram Rinpoche was good at was the physical stuff. So he did all the non-physical stuff too. But, like for example, he could in martial arts with one finger take on a fifth degree black belt and just go, they're out. And he would say, try to get me, try to punch me, just try to touch me, like really try. And then I'm like, okay, I really want to try. I tried it myself. Didn't work. You really try. And he's like, oh, I will reward you with some special teaching if you can actually do it. And then you're trying, and then he's like, one finger, bam, and then all of us are on the ground. That's a martial arts thing, physical. And then the other thing that he was good at physically was healing. So someone gets cancer. So I knew a number of students who had cancer and he would just, he was so funny because when he would talk to people about cancer, he'd say, you know, you got to get the, go to the best specialist. Okay. And the best specialist says, you're gonna die in six months. And then he's like, two weeks, you healed. And he healed people. So I saw that happen too. So that's physical, martial arts, physical, healing physical. But I just wanna tell one beautiful story of when we are in that San Diego desert, in Anza, Borrego. I was very, very close by. I was maybe six feet from him. And we were all sitting in a circle around him. And he said, okay, I'm going to do something kind of unique, a little bit special. You don't see this on every menu, unless you go to McDonald's. Just kidding. Anyway, so he was standing in this circle right in front of us, and I was about five or six feet away from him, and he started just making this weird movement with his legs. And I was just like, why is he making this weird movement? And he was walking off of the ground into the sky, right in front of me. And it was seeing, as many of you know, seeing these miraculous things, you're like, yeah, everything's cool. I'm not freaking out. And actually, I think that's part of Buddhist etiquette. It's like, I'll show you something. My head's going to disappear, but don't freak out. And it's part of our Buddhist magic etiquette, really. And then I was like how how did he get up there and then I looked down and I saw behind his feet and I saw his feet in the air moving and that was a cool thing I was a new student that was like, whoa, this guy walked five feet up into the air right in front of me. If I had been in the back or if they had some like special David Copperfield mirrors, I would have thought something different, but it was a pretty magical things. And we went out into the desert many times where we saw these magical things. And when Dharma from Santa Fe was giving his account of one of those experiences, I told, I was there. He was, you know, in my generation, young students. I remember that teaching and I remember that as well. And so I'm here to say that you could talk to any of Ram Prasad's direct students and they will all tell you the stories of walking on water, walking on air, jumping a quarter mile and things. And some of the, I mean, every single one of the students who was there, they knew it, they saw it. That was their experience and we talked about it. And then we saw it again and again and again. So while this great teacher taught me amazing things about how to direct my attention to have right livelihood, which is extremely important in this time. Right livelihood is foremost important in this time. And that's all about a job and skills and being intelligent, learning how to do interviewing. You know, it's just intelligent. And it's helped my, that part has helped my life so much. But then, there's also that magical part where, you know, there's this guy who can walk on water. There's this guy who can walk on air. And he can heal people. And I'm a martial artist, and I've been knocked over by him. He can knock you over. There's these things that he can do that are so powerful and unfathomable. But they're real.

0:50:01
But it's real.

0:50:03
Curing cancer is real. Knocking over a third-degree black belt? It's a real thing. You know, you just can't do it if you don't have that ability. And then, in this magical time, being able to walk up on air, or some of the other stories that you've heard from His Direct students, they're real. So from this amazing difficult challenge of right livelihood, I followed it. And from going through martial arts and seeing healing and seeing mysticism, I followed it. I followed the teachings. Hook, line, and sinker. I had enough proof where I never had a moment of doubt. Maybe that's good. It was hard for me to do these changes. Maybe I doubted myself, but I never doubted the teachings. I always saw that these teachings are real and they're powerful. And if you follow them, your life changes, you transform. You just have to walk down the path. Walk down the path that was created by this great enlightened master. You walk down that path and you're given so many blessings from the great wisdom of that master, Ram Maranbhishe. And I'd like to say thank you for joining me for this celebration. We're going to end with another meditation. Meditation on the third eye. This one's a little bit longer, about seven or eight minutes. and bring the focus to the third eye. And during the song, there's a very, very, very strong energy. This is the doorway that's open to the energy from Mariposa. And on his Mahasamadhi, it's a very good time to connect to that energy. Okay, let's begin.

0:52:31
the the the the the the the the so So so So so So So, So So So so you All right, wonderful. That's so beautiful. So this was a wonderful Brahmaribbhusha Mahasamadhi celebration. I just want to end with one last story. And I want to say, you know, Ram Ramesh, he was very

1:01:46
martial arts like, so he seemed like a very powerful martial artist. But he also healed people. But his interface was very intense. But he was also very funny. He was always funny. And he always said, you know, with enlightenment you get a little bit of an ironic sense of humor. And he said, enlightened people are bright and funny. And he was funny and bright. And there was a time, I just wanted to end with funny story. He took three of his students, these were three guys, on a power trip in the Sierra Nevada. And this is near Lake Tahoe in California. And you know, you're about up in the hills. And there had been several bear attacks. There's the California brown bear. And so hikers on the trail have been attacked by bears. It was happening at that time. And these three guys were afraid. They were like, you want to take us on this amazing, beautiful, fantastic, enlightening, magical trip? But what about bears?" And he said, well, you guys do have some karma with bears. So, I'll help you out. I'll make sure you guys are going to be okay. I'll give you some things to help you. And he's like, okay. So, they go, they get there, and they're about to, you know, the backpacks are going to go hike out and do meditation for a couple days and come back. And then, they go, what about the bears? What are you going to do for the bears for us, Ram Rinpoche? He says, well, so he gives them this necklace of small bells. So as you walk, you'll be jingling. So you just don't want to sneak up on a bear. You sneak up on a bear, bad situation. So as long as we're all jingling and making all the sounds, then the bears aren't going to have a problem. They're all, okay, thanks. So they put it on. They're all, okay, so we got that. And he's like, but I got something else for you guys. It's a kind of pepper spray for bears. So if bears start coming to you, you can spray, and they have sensitive noses, and they don't wanna get near pepper spray. So you got your jingling belts, so you don't sneak up on them, and if you do come across a bear, you can start doing the pepper spray. And then they're like, oh, thanks, Ron Rampage. He's totally helped us out. And he said, there's one last thing. We wanna be careful if we come across the path of a bear, we don't want to follow it. So it's hard for you guys to know what their paths look like. So we just look for their poo. So if you find their poo and you see it, we take another way around. And they go, OK, so how do we know if it's their poo? So well, first it's big. But then it also has these little bells in it and it smells like pepper. So he did that all the time. The teachings were not only powerful and real, because the bells and the spray actually worked, There's always a great laugh with the teachings. And that was one of the most amazing, beautiful, powerful ways. In every place, you're stressed out about money and your career, stressed out about burying you, stressed about martial arts, there was always humor. So, thank you for joining me this evening. It's been very beautiful. So, thank you for joining me this evening. It's been very beautiful.

1:06:07
Bye.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
