0:00:00
All right, so this is the Empowerment's Empowerment. And actually this is an empowerment I've already given you guys. Same with dreaming. I give you the dreaming teachings and transmissions, the empowerments to teach. It's just that there's a thing called a transmission, an empowerment, and an initiation. So in the Empowerment to Empowerment, you get more information about it. Because I remember I got these teachings one night in the Greenwich Hyatt. And Rama was mostly kind of like making jokes and talking about future plans that we would never, ever do. you. And yet, he brought up these things about transmissions and empowerments. And when he did it, he was giving the empowerment to empowerment. Which is the empowerment for you to be able And that is, if you're going to teach, that is one of the most powerful things of our school. Transmissions, and empowerments, and initiations. This is the key of Buddhist mysticism. But if you're going to do it, you better be really good. You better be really strong. Because this is where you get into trouble. Now, if you gotta do it, you gotta do it. But if you have to do it, you will have a difficult life. If you become enlightened and just go off and do fun things that you like to do, then you could have a happy life. I think, I think Mandala has a really happy life. I'm all like, why couldn't I be like that? But if you, if you have to do it, it's something you can't stop. It's gonna happen. And then you'll be like, oops. That's what Shiva does all the time, right? He's all... Shiva has gone through that transmission life. Beat to shit, very strong, but it's not a happy experience. Like, if you said, Shiva, is your experience of teaching happy? He's all, no. But it is my experience of enlightenment, and it's powerful because I teach. But if you can just like, you know, like have a really super happy life, then that's what Rama recommended. He recommended that you become enlightened and you have a super happy life. Do the thing that you're so strong to. If it's painting, maybe it's, you know, like finding a husband, I don't know, you can do it.

0:04:05
Anyway.

0:04:07
Yeah, Mandala has a husband, and she's super happy and bright and cool and amazing. So the first thing about the empowerment empowerment is that this is what a teacher does. They empower you. They do transmissions for you, they initiate you, and these things are the powerful points that shape and change your life. That's our school. We're just, we're a very oriental school. Like, we're like a kata. Like, there's so much things about our school that are just like doing kata, like forms. They just, you just practice them and you develop power through doing them, and then if something happens in real life and you're all like, oh wow, those eight guys are down. So yeah, so there's a very, very strong aspect in our transmissions, empowerments, and initiations that are just like being a sensei at a dojo. And this is the sensei empowerment. You've already got the empowerment. I'm just describing it more so you'll wake into it more. I got the empowerment back in, you know, the Greenwich Hyatt, Greenwich, Connecticut. And then even after enlightenment, I had to spend years, you know, like with great care and focus, bringing those powers up to master them. So now I'm a master. Now I'm an enlightened master. Now I would say I'm an enlightened master, because I have a lot of enlightened students. So obviously I did it to a really high degree for myself, but I could also do it for others. So I'm like, okay, this is what I would call an enlightened master. Why not? That's my definition. If you can make a bunch of people enlightened, enlightened master, even if you're an idiot, and you have the most advanced beings, you get like five guys who are like Buddha, Krishna, Ramakrishna, and that other guy, and then Ananda, my mom, and you're like, oh, I did a meetup, and they showed up, and they all became enlightened in my first class, and you're all like, I think you're supposed to meditate on a chakra, but sometimes I meditate on my left shoulder.

0:06:57
And they're all like,

0:06:58
they go,

0:06:58
and then they go,

0:07:01
and you're all like,

0:07:02
oh, they're all Maiten now, so I'm gonna Maiten master.

0:07:05
That's my definition.

0:07:07
You make like five, six people Maiten, you're a bastard! Okay, so anyway, so what I'm teaching you is something that I also don't recommend that on doing these teachings. And you have to be super strong. Now I'd have to point out that Sahaja is super super super wonderful and I think she's found a place that she can help. She writes books and she does a class like once in a while when she's super strong. But if you're gonna be like an everyday teacher, like Sambara, how many black belts do you have? Like how far have you pushed it in your yoga? I'm pretty sure, you know, app buddies have done more than I've done. And some of you are better at coding than I was. I used to code when it was all like, it was all like, what do you call it? Like go-to, like basic. Like I had several contracts that were visual basic. And then when it came out to Java, that Rama said, yeah, you guys gotta learn Java or you're gonna be an idiot. I was all, I took Jana's Java class and I was all, I was like, I don't understand anything. So I started to go off, I was more into business intelligence, which they call big data now, and now big data is way bigger than data warehousing. Anyway, so some of you are better at tech than me and I'm like, yeah

0:09:15
Good for you

0:09:17
Because I got to a very high level of I mean I was making 379 dollars an hour as a consultant But it's mostly because of my sales abilities than my technical abilities. So I Don't know. But I think a lot of you are much better programmers than I was. And I think that some of you are better martial artists. Because now I'm all like, I'm just going to do Tai Chi for the rest of my life. Unless I have to kick your ass. And I might pull up some personal power. black belts or like higher skilled or not higher skilled younger but I got a lot of personal power. If it comes down to it, you never know. So I really want my students to be better than me, and I think a lot of you are, or higher tier, exceptional yogis that are sales people, that are programmers, that are martial artists. You guys still have to prove the better meditation thing. We'll get there though. That was a big thing for Rama. Rama had this guru and Rama was like, wow, I really love this guy, but I meditate way better than him. And then he's like, he did that for like a year and then he's like, I got, now I got to leave this guy. So, but I think ultimately what you have to get to is where I got to, which is my best meditation is my best meditation, me. I think they're a foundation and a root of my practice. But my meditations that I have by myself are the highest. They're higher than any like time that I sat with Rama. A lot of times I go back to a lot of dimensions that he opened up, but I've gone beyond that, and it is exceptional. Now, let's get back to transmissions. When you're doing a transmission, a transmission is, and this is a fundamental, mystical practice, and very core to our school. Let's say I wanna talk about spiritual balance. I do this constantly. Every time I give a teaching, I give a transmission. I give the first attention, which is me saying some words, just to lure people into trying to hear me, and hopefully I'm not too boring, they can follow what I'm saying. So someone with half of first attention can follow, and then I am super strong on second attention. If I can tell you a little joke, a little story, and following what I'm saying, I am, the whole thing is leading into a transmission. It is creating the situation. And that one time where I say, now I'm going to give you the transmission of, let's say spiritual balance, or truth, or any teaching that I give you. For the past few years I only give transmission teachings, or I don't know how many years, maybe 10 years. Because I used to, with the ST3s I used to be all, you're stupid. Come closer so I can punch you. I'm like, is that a spiritual teaching? Yeah, but then I was like, okay, let me get it to something that's going to work for the public. For 13 SP3s, I'm all like, come closer. Watch my winding up punch.

0:14:03
Gosh, that's awful.

0:14:05
I know, it's great.

0:14:07
Shit.

0:14:09
Anyway, so, um, I want to tell you what a transmission is. So, the, the construct of a transmission is to, in your mind Come perfectly to a spiritual ideal there are 10,000 you know Lotus petals and you're like well, I want I'm gonna share one of those lotus petals with you. You have to be able to Stop thought and go into Samadhi and go to that lotus petal of spiritual balance or enlightenment or any spiritual teaching is a lotus petal and that's in the second intention structure to open up that perfect, bright, no-self, perfect state of mind. And then what happens is the Kundalini will rise from the first chakra to the third eye, but it also might go to the crown, but it could be also just the third eye, that that's what will happen. Either third eye or crown. And then you will push that kundalini energy through your physical body, your subtle physical body, and your causal body. That kundalini rises in the causal of the Shushum. And then when you do Shakti, it will go, once you hit that perfect thing, that state of mind that you want to do, and that you bring the Kundalini up, then this thing, because if you're going to do transmission, it is a function, like a block in karate, or bozuki, wait, that's a gyaku zuki. Anyway, it is a function that when you come to the state of mind that you wish to teach perfectly, and if you can't do it perfectly, very high, very wonderful. And then when you transmit it, this Kundalini energy that comes up from your Shashumna then explodes through different chakras, maybe the throat, maybe the heart, maybe the navel, whatever, often the navel, the beginning most usually of the navel, we're talking about dreaming or something like that, and what happens is you have a tremendous, you go into a perfect state of mind and you're holding that one state of perfection for people to see as a demonstration and then you bring that power. That power explodes from the causal body and it rips through the subtle body and it rips through And it doesn't, the astral body is not involved. It is pure Shakti that comes out. Which is to people blocks of consciousness, constructs of awareness. Because when I teach you guys all of these things, I teach you it like a kata. I teach you it as a form. It is actually a very complicated matter. It's as if you wrote a whole bunch of code and said go, or if you did a whole bunch of kata, and what is the result of that kata. It's those things coming together. I like, I think that's the best way to describe it, but it's even more than that. But that's a good way to say it's this whole thing, but it's also this whole thing. It's all, it's mentions. And that's as close as I can get to describing it. Now, you can all do it if you wish. If you want, you can meet a person, see where they're at, and you can say, I want to give you a transmission. And you will say, I'm going to go to this high state of mind, place, maybe it's a place, and any of my teachings have had transmissions, you have the ability to do any of those transmissions. This is a school of not watching and elevating a guru or something like that, this is a school of learning, just like in martial arts. You go to a sensei, he'll teach you how to be a black belt. I'm teaching you how to be a black belt. And I'm teaching you martial arts techniques that can break people's faces. It's powerful stuff. Don't mess around with this. Don't make mistakes. I might teach you a martial arts technique that is so powerful, you could smash someone's face like this. Don't do it, unless you need to do it.

0:20:33
Don't teach.

0:20:34
Don't kill, unless you need to kill. Don't teach, unless you need to teach. Equal things. I guarantee it. Well, there's ways to teach, but don't teach with the full power of these empowerments if you're not ready to be all in a life and death fight. And because if you started, there's a karma, you might do it. And then if you do it, then you're going to be stuck in it. And I'm like, for me, it was a calling. I've done it a lot. This is something that was an outgrowth and heightened awareness and a way for me. extremely powerful karma in being an enlightened teacher. It is a very high karma. It breaks karmas of people's and it also is enlightening for me. But I am a highly trained athlete and I wonder if you are too. Maybe you're good at computer programming but are you a fifth degree black belt? Like, be careful to try to follow exactly what I did. I'm highly trained. So, do what you can do. Find your focus. Work on what you can work on. state of mind of any level that I've taught before and it is something where first you go into that high state it has to be a Samadhi state and then you bring the energy up from the navel and then whatever teaching you're coming from, you come from that chakra and you just push it out. And you're very trained in this so it will be like a kata, it will be like a form. It's not just some idiot going, blah, I have some energy. No, you guys are actually extremely trained so that if you did it you would be like... You would do all sorts of technique because you're trained. Being trained is a very important thing. You're not just coming out of self. I mean you might be sloppy with your technique, but you will all work in technique. And that technique is successful. So when you do transmission, I did two transmissions yesterday. I am really good at this. I am very good at this. I almost passed out, which I haven't done for many years. When you push the bar, you have to have an extremely strong, subtle physical body. You better be a martial artist, you better be a black belt, you better be that. And I definitely lived my life to be that. And I can only teach at this level because of taking all of that seriously. Lots of SD1s and SD2s don't have black belts. They're big goofballs. And Rama said from all the years we were with him, he said, get a black belt, get a black belt, get a black belt. And he would also always say, hey, look what these black belts are doing. Black belts are strong, black belts are strong. You've got to learn computer programming too, but black belts are strong. He had a lot of computer programmers and very few black belts. And he kept pointing out Black belts are powerful. Be strong. Being a black belt, being a martial artist, is so important, so strong. In facing evil witches or evil lower occultists trying to hurt me and my students. I found that the same thing that Rama taught, martial arts kicks their ass. Someone tries to cast a spell on you, if you're a black belt, you'll be like, ha! If you're a trained black belt, Evil magicians can't mess with you and the martial arts power is so much stronger. If you're an idiot, any little spell can bother you. on transmissions, bring your mind to the highest point. What do you want to teach? I teach all sorts of things all the time. And when I teach them, I go to that place, that ideal of enlightenment, and I exist there. I reside in that place. And I bring up a tremendous amount of Kundalini. It's been more and more. And then I transmit that. I push that out to you. You can all do this. It comes from what you know. A lot of you have had powerful experiences of enlightenment and of energy. And you can say, let's say you have one student before you and you say, I want to give you a transmission. I want to give you the power of a light to help you. And I'll call it, you know, you've had so many transmissions from me. You could turn someone into a yogi with getting into initiations. But you can do so many things of every teaching. You could transmit that experience to that person. And if you transmit that experience, that person might not, just like the seeing tonight, they might not have any seeing, not knowing, but something in them sparks them off and that's the thing. Something in them is awakened. This is the real deal. This is why I'm here. I have been awakened through transmissions. This is why I do transmissions for you, because you are awakened through transmissions. Like I say, there's a lot of ways to enlightenment. Sometimes it's jnana, truth, insight. Sometimes it's bhakti. I just love my guru so much that I'm going to become enlightened. I think that's a really nice way. And maybe it's like, yeah, you've got to build your guru a bunch of stone temples or software companies, but enlightenment is real. Enlightenment can be achieved through all these ways. And in our school, a very, very powerful way to enlightenment is the transmissions. The transmissions enlighten you. You are the... I'm a burning log and you're the log next to me and just hanging out with me eventually you catch fire and when you catch fire you ought to know what to do. Transmissions be careful because if you want to, sit there, be illuminated, let yourself smolder and figure it out until your fire Because enlightenment is without a doubt. But if you start to try to teach people, you'll pile on a whole bunch of stuff that can burn,

0:30:35
but won't burn.

0:30:36
Don't think it's me, I make things burn. Like, you have to see what the light is within you. If you pull on too many things, you won't burn. So there is a massive tax when you do a transmission. I suffered this tax yesterday and I do a transmission, I come up to such a high energy. It's extremely high. It is a deadly energy. It would kill all of you. If you experienced that energy that I experienced in my transmissions, you would die. It would just kill you. And it almost kills me. It's very difficult. Transmission is extremely difficult. It's not easy. It's not an easy thing to do. It's a complete opening of your heart and your soul and all sorts of dimensions. And showing something, showing something that you know to win to help someone. This is something that Leila did day one. As soon as she became liberated, she had in her heart this thing I would not recognize, but she's like, I need to help people. You need to appreciate what that help is for her, was very, very, very, very, very intense. She would do teachings and meditations and everything to help people with enlightenment. And for her, every time she did it, she would say, oh my god, afterwards I feel so much intensity, so much push down, so much karma. And I'm like, yeah, that's what happens. And she did it so selflessly, she did it with so much care. And she helped people. People had so many high, beautiful meditations. But for Leela, that was a... She did so many good things. And her highest meditations are her greatest help. And then she comes out of it paying a physical tax. A physical, subtle physical tax. She's like, I'm taxed. I'm hurt. I'm lowered. I'm broken. And then she would need to spend more time meditating to get strong again to be able to do it again. She's drawn to be a teacher. She is a teacher that has been doing teaching for many incarnations. And that's why she's just going to do it. But it's not, it is not easy. If you get accepted to come to a teaching of enlightenment, it is not easy for the teacher. The teacher is doing something extraordinary. They're really working hard. So don't take it for granted and understand the power that I'm giving you to empower people, or do transmissions. I didn't even get into empowerment yet. If you do a transmission, there's a massive tax that you take. Massive tax. It is a tax of your subtle physical body and it's a tax of your mental, yeah, mental connection to everyone that you're doing. If you're not a really good martial artist, I would say maybe don't do it. Lila's a black belt, so she knows enough. But don't do it just to do it. Now, when I got to Bodhi Woods, Shen showed me the transmission that he gave. It was perfect, wonderful, amazing. Any shodan, if you need to give a transmission, just get to the heart of the matter, of the enlightened thing that you need to share.

0:36:11
And you can share.

0:36:12
You don't have to be enlightened. You can be a shodan. And in Buddha's school too, there are many people who are not enlightened who are better teachers than the shodan. So if you're a shodan, then be better. I mean, be better. Be better. But this school of enlightenment is a school of impeccability. It doesn't matter if you're enlightened. You might be an enlightened person who causes crazy trouble because of your confusion, your ramblings of enlightenment. You're not an impeccable enlightened person. So you might be a trouble. This happened in Buddhist school too. showed on, an advanced student, then you can direct the way. You can help people. An archant can help people if the archant is aligned, knows what's going on, is focused, and then they just start doing

0:37:41
crazy things.

0:37:42
They're off in another world, reading a different book, talking about the Bible. You know what Jesus said? And it's something that you don't bring back to this dojo. It doesn't help that dojo. They just might be interested in it and going off into another way. But there's a lot of examples of this with Buddha. Buddha's teachings of his noble enlightened students, there's a book about it. They're like, some enlightened students do some weird things, but there's some enlightened students that help everyone so powerfully. If you're going to be one of those enlightened students, then be in that Sangha and do that. And the other one, just, you know, you can go off into anywhere you want, to the swamp, to the beach, or whatever, and just do whatever you want, but there's no stories of what they did. All stories of the weird enlightened ones who went away, they did their own thing. They didn't do a more powerful thing, which is Sangha. But there's many stories of Sangha, many stories of great enlightened students of Buddha who then went to a different region and made enlightenment happen. Another place, enlightenment happened. And then some people are into music or some people are into dance or whatever. They did enlightenment in different ways. That's transmission. Transmission is a high state of mind, perfect state of mind, all the things that I've always taught, all the things that I've always taught, you reach that state of mind and if you want to present it to someone, your kundalini will come up because you are in this perfect and mighty state of mind that that and people will be able to change people's lives, change the karmas, open up the dharma, have them follow the path of jnana. Then there's empowerment. Empowerment is even worse. It's being, but if you empower someone, you give them a measure of your power. You're, alright, I want to empower you, so I'm going to give you this talk and a meditation and a transmission kind of thing, but I'm also going to give you, you know, like 60% of my personal power. You only empower someone when you know you need to back that horse. I empowered Dharma and Ajna. I empowered Apati. I empowered my whole Sangha. And they all, anytime I empowered them, they had a win. You guys remember when I did the Wheel of Dharma empowerment? I said, it was the first teaching Yana came to it, and I said, we're going to do an empowerment, and you will all make at least 15% more in your income, and then 90% of the sangha made more money, at least 15% more, but most people doubled it. It was a huge thing. So that was an empowerment. And if you do an empowerment and it doesn't work, then quit, because you don't know what you're doing. When I do an empowerment, I will state what it is and it will happen because I'm very strong at that. You can't just come up with some aspiration and be really nice. When I do empowerments, every empowerment that I've done has had a significant physical result. And so, don't play with empowerment. If you are going to say something to them, an empowerment with someone, it has to be something that they will see in their physical life. This brings it up to the next level of responsibility. You can't say, I didn't empower you with some No, we have very high responsibility levels of performance. When Rama empowered us, it blew our minds and made the whole school change and get higher. And that's the level of empowerment that I follow. So if I say empowerment, it is an empowerment and the whole school gets up. The whole school goes to another level. So, don't play with empowerment. And here's the thing with empowerment. The empowerment is, I'm really powerful and strong in this, and now I'm going to give 40, 50, 60% of my energy to that person that I want to empower. So here's what I have to say. I am a badass martial artist. I'm super strong in martial arts. I'm super strong in martial arts. So if I want to give someone power in martial Come into my dojo. You will. Okay. I will say I'm gonna give you an experience in here from my power that is going to change your life forever. You'll say I don't know what you're talking about and then in it I that empowerment I

0:44:12
make you a

0:44:14
martial artist. You know what I mean? You don't, if you're going to empower someone, they have to be the right person at the right time, and you are going to give them, you're going to open the door and make it happen. Empowerment. Don't do it. Unless you're ready to deal with what happens next. And it just gets worse. I mean, like, look what happened to Mr. Miyagi. He took on Daniel-san. you taught him the shit, then you had to get into some fights and he had to eventually die. Empowerment is something that, you know, I gave you the empowerment, empowerment, I'm going to give it to you again, just wakes you up to more awareness of it. Empowerment is such a big thing if you want your student to become enlightened. You have to transmit to them and you have to enlighten them. Mostly, because if you can't do a transmission, if you don't empower people, this world is so heavy. The only thing I know that wakes people up is empowerment and transmission. When you do an empowerment, you say, oh, I'm going to give you a yoga empowerment, or a job empowerment, so you can get a job. When you do an empowerment, you will lose 90% of your energy. An empowerment means that you give someone energy. It means that you invest in them. You give them a whole bunch of energy. I'll give you a whole bunch of energy. And so, I think you need to think about that before you do an empowerment. Transmission, Explode through my aura. And when I do that, it's so intense. And I'm pretty sure I'm the best person here to handle that intensity. Maybe I shouldn't. But I'm going to disappear into oblivion in a static way, and ecstasy ends up being extremely painful. Ecstasy is too much. No, ecstasy is extremely painful. You think you have a moment of ecstasy and you're, oh, that's really good. What if it doesn't stop? And what if it just keeps going more? It is extremely difficult. Rama used to talk about this, I didn't know what he was talking about, but it's also, it can just beat the shit out of your subtle physical body and your physical body. I started having, this time, so much in my causal body, in my neck like crazy because the ecstasy was too much. Ecstasy is blissful and it's ecstatic and it is one of the things of our school too, our Samadhis are very ecstatic. It's not just a nothing. But it's some work. And if you do transmissions, it's very difficult. in someone. You are taking your personal power and you are investing in the other person or the other students. But imagine, look at your students and if they're useless assholes that are never going to work out and you put a whole bunch of power into them, you are wasting your energy for your enlightenment, for your success, for your balance. So when you teach, you better be backing the right horse. Or if you're teaching and you know someone's a loser, don't empower them. Only empower the person who you see as a person needs the Dharma because you could empower losers, which I've done many times, who go and explode and go into some ego craziness. But because I have so much power, I can bet But you can't. I've done this a lot. I've developed myself for years. I'm very good at this. And I could take a loser student, and I have so much power, I could take a punt. Oh, I could take a punt on her. See what happens. And because I take a punt, I have so much power. Yeah, something good's gonna happen. It might not be the perfect thing, but it's something that helps them. The more power that you have, the more that you develop yourself as teachers, you can't do too many transmissions where you wipe yourself out. You can't do empowerments all the time where you wipe yourself out. You have to develop yourself as an advanced teacher, as a master. And if you do it right, you will have so much power that you can do all sorts of mystical teachings in dreams, through the etheric double, people that you just hear about, spark your heart, you can give them transmissions. And you can empower your good students. And empower them, like the way I empower you. You are a power. You can teach. But really, really think back to when you first met me, the way I was teaching. Very, very carefully, very, very structured, lots of tonneau every time I teach. And I don't mess around, even now. I'm not a flippity-dippity. I'm very, very, there's something deep inside of me that's very, very clear on teach this person and I can give them everything all the dimensions if it's required but I don't just teach because I want to teach don't teach because you want to teach don't share these transmissions or empowerment's you feel like you want to express yourself oh yeah that was so Oh God, that would be so wrong. Wait until the right person comes to you. When they come to you, share it with them. Freely. That's how power, that's what you're following the Dharma, that's how power unfolds. The last one I would like to talk about is transmissions, perfect state of mind, bring the energy up and rip it through your subtle physical body until you go crazy. Empowerments are, I'm going to take my $100,000 that I have and give $60,000 away to these assholes. And then, if I'm lucky, my investment pays off. But usually it doesn't. That's empowerment. Don't empower people who are not going to reflect that light and power back to you. You would be an idiot. You can empower people like an idiot. Tibetans do this all the time. Sorry, sorry Tenzin, Tibetan Buddhist empowerments are not empowerments. They are a practice where they are used to be actual empowerments. It isn't anymore. There is no power anymore. What I transmit is actual power. And if you don't appreciate it or understand it, it's a block, it's kind of a cultural block. I understand that you need to look at the people who I'm talking to where it does transmit to them. They are empowered. They go from being a homeless loser to being someone who works for Apple. I'm in the West, so I'm teaching in the Western way, and I totally respect you, but I have to say that you have to look at what's working here. If If I took the same students and brought them to Bhutan, or something like that, their life would not change. They'd go to Bhutan, they'd learn some stuff, they'd come back and they'd be in the same level of consciousness, no problem. Or, you know, they just wouldn't be strong. This is a place of power and transition. A place of illumination. Wait, is Tenzin even here? Okay, cool. Anyway, so, I really respect Tenzin. But it's very important to point out, like, you know, I've hung around Tibetan Buddhists a lot. They bore the shit out of me. But they have so many powerful constructs of Buddhism. But this is not sleepy Buddhism, this is awakened Buddhism. This is Buddhism where people become enlightened. And when the enlightened ones of your lineage die out and there's no more enlightened ones, you will believe them like the holy grail. You will. You believe them, that's the only thing. And there's some power there. There's something more. There's something more in spirit. And that's what we do in transmission. We transmit spirit. And empowerment. Empowerment. And then, something Something that I've given you guys the transmission for is also initiation. Initiation is extremely powerful. You can go over to someone and if it's right, you can say to them, I'm going to put you on the path, the pathway to enlightenment, and that is one of the most powerful things you can do for anyone. It is a very high, beautiful, wonderful thing. So if you can put someone on the path, do it. And you can do it. And know how you do it? I don't know. If I ran into someone and they were like, yeah, so I'm kind of concerned about my physical health because I'm in a neighborhood where I might get attacked. If someone told that to me, I'd say, I'm a really strong martial artist. So what kind of things happen there? Well, people come and grab my purse, or someone might come over and try to punch me and then take my money or something. I'd say, oh, in those two cases I know what to do. I will help you with that. And by me knowing their situation and saying my expertise of how to defend themselves. That is me initiating them on the path of, let's say, martial arts or self-defense. So if someone comes over to you, some random person in yoga class or whatever, and they're like, hey, something spiritual, and you say, if there's a connection, you could say, I can, I can, you know, let's talk a little bit more, and if they like where you're coming from, if they're inclined towards your being, you could say, I can put you on the path. That is miraculous. And this is the one empowerment, empowerment that I would recommend. Buddha always said share the way. And the way that we share the way has a lot of mysticism in it that blows people's minds open and makes things real. So if you come across someone, might be at a store or yoga class or the guy fixing your tire or something like that. If you come across someone who listens to the truth, here's power in you, and you can feel that their soul is going to enlightenment, then this is the one thing I would recommend that you do, you initiate them. Now a lot of you have been through a lot of different initiations, but initiating someone on the pathway to enlightenment is extremely powerful, beautiful, wonderful and amazing. And in a lot of ways it's considered to be the most important initiation. Because if you initiate them on the pathway to enlightenment, eventually they'll figure out, they might have to go through some lifetimes, but eventually they'll figure out so many things and they'll finally get to enlightenment. And it was because you initiated them. So if you come across someone, the one transmission and empowerment that I would But don't initiate the wrong person. You might say, I fancy that person being enlightened. But if they don't have the heart open, and you do an initiation on them, you know what happens? They will run away from enlightenment forever, for thousands of lifetimes. So you're like, I think that this person should do it, so I'm going to do an initiation on them.

1:01:41
Right?

1:01:42
And if you do that to them, if they're not ready, if they don't want it, if they're not at a place in the heart open, then the initiation energy will freak them out, they'll get angry at you, they will resent you, they'll never talk to you again, and they'll run away into samsara. So don't do it because you want it, do it if you see they are open. And as advanced students in this school, you can give people this transmission. This is an initiation. But also, if you're even more advanced, you might say, I'm going to give a student the yoga transmission, the yoga initiation. I just did this in Iceland. I was like, y'all need to get some yoga. And it was very tenuous. They're so into whatever they're into, but I was like, no, I know you're at, I really know that you're at the right place. And if I teach it delicately and do it just properly, it is going to bring you guys all up. And I did it, and it brought them all up. So, I'm very good at that. If you make a mistake at that, you get extremely horrible karma, even if you're enlightened. Don't mess up people's spiritual paths. Don't mess it up. You mess it up, you're going to get locked in horrible karma. You might be enlightened. Jesus had some pretty bad enlightened karma. He got killed, chastised, people were like, we don't like you. You're ugly. Your hair is bad. No, when he got chastised, he got this shit beat out of him. So, just because you're enlightened, doesn't mean everything is going to work out perfectly well. And also, if you fuck up, and you do things like you empower people wrong, and you just put your enlightened energy in the wrong place. You have to be, if you're enlightened, you have to be like a wealthy person. I have a great wealth and I'm going to use it here in this way and I'm going to invest it in this person. I'm going to use it here to help things. You can't just be all like, blam, blam, blam, blam, me, me, me. I guess that's what Sahaja calls enlightened ego. Enlightened Ego. I didn't know that was a concept, because I didn't have that, actually. I was a dedicated, selfless teacher, and I didn't experience Enlightened Ego. And I was like, oh well, now that I have a whole bunch of Enlightened students, now I understand. So, even if you're enlightened, you can fuck up. Don't fuck up. Jesus fucked up, man. He just wasn't good enough. He should have avoided the problems that he was in. He was just being all so wild. Ramakrishna was like that in the beginning. Ramakrishna's all like, fuck fuck you you're all wrong he would go over to like the big Hindus and yell fuck you fuck you swarming motherfucker he would he would just like diss people like shit he's I know the truth I'm higher than you and fuck you he's lucky he didn't get killed but there

1:05:30
It's true.

1:05:31
Transmissions and empowerments, only do them if you're willing to pay a heavy tax. Only do empowerments if you're ready to give a massive amount of your power to someone else. I feel good about empowering someone with my martial arts energy because I feel very strong about my martial arts. I've done it for many years. I'm very good at it. So I feel good at that kind of empowerment. But I also feel good at empowering anything in our lineage. I can empower, I can give you the intermediate empowerment, because I know what the intermediate study is so well. I can give you that. I can give you any empowerment of any subject that I've ever taught about. If I want to, I can give you an empowerment. I can give you how much of kindling energy that you get to have and then you go oh this is that kind of energy. Oh this is this flavor of ice cream. That's an empowerment, flavors of ice cream. Transmission is, I'm not actually giving you my own personal power. I'm going to such a high state, bringing up my kundalini and broadcasting. That's Shakti. And if you do that, there's a toll on your aura and your mind. Transmission teachers usually don't live a long time. Transmission teachers, if you do transmission teachings, like I do, you usually don't live a long time. Rama didn't live a long time, Krishna didn't live a long time, transmission teachers usually don't live a long time. There's a toll, there's a tax on your aura, on your health. And I'm still alive. But I totally recognize because of transmission teaching that I don't believe I will live a long time and I've decided to give my life to this teaching. But, you know, there were times where I thought I would die. You guys remember? I went through so many different phases. And then the thing is that I'm a badass black belt. I'm a super strong yogi. I've survived so many things in the basic practices that I tell you guys to do. I've achieved such high states. I'm really good at what I do. So be as good as me. Be a massive black belt. Be exceptional in yoga. And if you want to do what I do, then do what I do. I'm an exceptional player here. And if you're like, I'm just going to be like Simbara and just do those cool things that he does, you better have all that foundation and all that power and all that ability to do it. And also, you know, like Tao, like Ajna, when you first met me, I didn't know, you know, I had all those black belts and I was a yogi, and I was an advanced student. And then I became enlightened. And as an enlightened student, I started to learn all the stuff that I know now. I learned how to be an enlightened master. So you guys are at skill one, maybe black belt level one, if you're lucky. But you have to realize this stuff is not something to mess around with. So, when Rama said, don't, I'm going to teach you this stuff, don't do it, I was all, oh, I don't know what that means. Now I know what it means, fully. Initiations, all of you are capable of initiations and initiation puts someone on the path. And also, initiation is something that, if you know it, you can open the door for someone. Are you a good yogi? Are you a good computer programmer, martial artist? are you on the pathway to enlightenment? All of the same, I would have to say yes. Especially, are you on the pathway to enlightenment? You can initiate someone if it's right for them. You can meet someone somewhere and put them on the path. And if you put someone on the where if it's right, it opens them up and in some lifetime they're going to eventually become enlightened. They're going to go way up. They're going to learn so many wonderful things. So initiation is something I'd recommend. Transmission, no. Empowerment, no. Unless you are ready to deal with the ramifications of those things. But initiation is something where you can look at someone and say, Oh, I recognize that you're interested in this, and that's where I exist. Open the door to my dojo, come in, and let me give you your first class. And then after someone's first class in martial arts, they might stay with you for a long time, like there's some other dojo, but you initiate them, they're black belts in there. Okay, so I'd like to conclude with the empowerment of empowerment. I've already given you guys this, but the reason I talk about these things is because it makes it more real and accessible, something that you can do. So we're going to do the empowerment empowerment, which is the empowerment of how to do transmissions, empowerments, and initiations. And we're just going to sit for one song. Focus on the third eye, and you can have your eyes opened or closed.

1:12:47
And let's begin.

1:12:49
of the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the the the the the so Thank you. you Wonderful. That's the empowerment of empowerment. If you want to waste your energy on a bunch transmissions, every time I do a transmission, I do it very powerfully, but afterwards I feel like my physical body might slip away. I go so high that I actually feel like I could

1:17:42
die. And I think someday it will happen. But I just do what I gotta do. But I'm so high, the energy is so intense, all of my weirdness is just gold blight, and I have so much energy, and I have so much little focus on my physical body, even though I have a very strong tonneau, so I can walk around without tripping, but it is so intense when I do transmissions. Probably someday I'll do a transmission and just drop the body. It's probably going to happen. So transmissions is a big deal. Now, you know, like Leila for example, after her liberation, she was so happy to do transmissions and she does them very beautifully, very high, beautiful transmissions. It could also be that I've been doing this for a long time and my transmissions are really high and also there's a toll of tax on the body. So yeah, if you're a young scrub, then maybe your transmissions are going to be like okay for you. But for me, they're extremely high, extremely powerful, and difficult to handle.

1:20:12
Very difficult.

1:20:14
And initiations, if you find the right person, put them on the pathway to enlightenment. I think that's the highest and most profound thing. But these are the ways of empowerment, transmission, and initiation But these are the ways of empowerment, transmission, and initiation at our school that radically affect students' pathway to enlightenment. Like you! Thank you so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
