0:00:00
All right, so, we have a couple new spiritual names. And the first spiritual name is Tenzin, and his spiritual name is Doshin. Doshin is a Japanese word and it just draws back to when he was a Japanese Buddhist and it means the way of truth, which is a very important thing because Doshin follows the way of truth. So that's good. The second name is for Elise Parker and her name is also a Japanese name. It's Kamiko and Kamiko It means like little goddess. Okay, those are the spiritual names.

0:01:13
On the island. So now we're on the island

0:01:17
and sometimes we might run into a spiritual person here. There's a lot of very spiritual people here. And so you might meet someone and want to share the pathway to enlightenment. Now, at first I was like, no, we need to be very inaccessible. But now I'm like, well, it is okay. If you meet someone here to share the pathway to enlightenment with them. It is okay. Buddha said, share the way, so we're going to share the way. So, you know, a couple of people were interested in actually teaching here. It's good if you want to teach here in person. And if you get students who like it, you can talk about the Buddha Dojo, everything, and you can eventually, if people are really interested students, they can come to our you know, Wednesdays, you know, when this delta starts to get out of here. They can come to our Wednesdays on the beach, they can come to power trips with us. There's one thing that you cannot talk to them about, one thing that you can't share with them, it is this location. This is my bat cave. Yeah, so you can't share this with them because, you know, even though they might be a really jolly person, they might talk to a kahuna. You know, they'll be, I'm into Hawaiian spirituality, whatever. whatever, but for Hawaiians, if you say there's a spiritual community in South Kona, and I know where it's at, it really could bother them. So we have to be very inaccessible about this location. So we could be a spiritual community on the island, it's just that we don't have a location. We meet at a public beach, or we go down to a state park, or something like that. That's okay. So, yeah, if you want to teach or if you meet someone and you want to share the pathway to enlightenment with them, because there's a lot of natural people on this island, it's okay. And eventually we can, you know, like meet, get teachings and all sorts of cool things, but you cannot tell them that we have a home base. We don't have a mothership. We are distributed.

0:04:07
We are blockchain.

0:04:08
We're blockchain, yeah. You have to be like, we are blockchain. Which we are.

0:04:13
So we don't have a mothership.

0:04:14
Yeah?

0:04:15
How should we talk about our teacher for a few years? Yeah, you can talk about the Buddha Dojo. You can talk about your teacher. You can talk about everything except Ananda Loa. That's the one thing. Yeah?

0:04:40
Everything in general and for beginners.

0:04:43
Everything in general and for beginners, for sure.

0:04:46
Yeah.

0:04:46
But the one thing, even if we know someone who is really, really good and strong and down and everything, we have to say, the one thing that we won't talk about is that we gather here, and we won't let them gather here. And even if they're the most amazing person, for a long time, we won't let them gather here. Until we establish our meditation hall and our farm, and the procedures of coming to the farm and the meditation hall because we need to merge farming with meditation and then everything that we do here is totally fine and we're going to work that out over the next couple of years or so. So there is going to be a way but it's going to be farming. Okay, so that's an important thing. You. Me? Yeah. Yeah, you can say me, Sanbar the farmer. Where do you live?

0:05:46
Do you live on the island?

0:05:47
Yeah, I live on the island, but I don't live in a community. There's no home base. Yeah. So, all of us, you could tell people, there's a spiritual community that lives here, but we don't have a location. If we say we have a location, then that's where Hawaiians get really upset about other spiritual groups and churches and anything. But if we don't have a location, you know, to our students, all we do is meet on the beach, or maybe we go on a power trip or something like that, it's okay. But if any kind of Hawaiian knows that there's a spiritual community somewhere, it brings tons of bad attention. Question? When they start coming to the beach, we start talking about the law of the beach in between us, right?

0:06:34
Correct. Yeah.

0:06:36
to have this talk about this place. It's really important.

0:06:43
Okay, I would say, kind of a rough deal from us. Imagine if you walk into a dojo, and some black belt brings you in, and you're a white And all of a sudden, other people are like, who the fuck are you? Yeah, we don't want to do that.

0:07:41
So, we want to be open to people, no matter what,

0:07:45
whoever comes into our school. So, gotta do that. So, yeah, Morgan broke up with Hahnemann because of all this. And I think that's good because it's cleaner. It's a cleaner situation. I'm like, yeah, that's better. But I think that, you know, like, Morgan is good. That's a good spiritual person. So we shouldn't give her a hard time. And also, whatever Hawaiians we come across. There's so many interesting people who are Very important. Yeah. So, yeah. Joshua Tree, and they did a desert trip. And they brought some people who were on their first desert trip, and some people who've been on desert trips with me, and the desert trip went really well. When it was happening in the second intention, I was like, this is a really, really proper desert trip. It's like, really done well. And then afterwards I got some recapitulations that the students wrote and they shared it with me. Super bright teachings, like really perfect teachings. And it was amazing. I really, really, really liked it. So, this is really good. I'm glad that you guys are getting to this point. Because I'm like, oh, okay, great. If you guys can do desert trips, power trips,

0:10:06
I'm like, whew.

0:10:07
It's a lot of work.

0:10:08
And I've done it for a lot of years,

0:10:11
so I get tired of it. And for you guys, it's like maybe exciting. Yeah, but I'm good at it, so that's why I do it. But, here's the thing. This is a school, I would say, of transmission. A school where it's not just that there's some great master. It's really like a dojo. It's like you learn to be that great master. There's the transmission so that you can be that great master. It's not just that there's some great master and you can never be that great master. That's how it is very often in people's minds. It's like, oh, the Buddha is the Buddha, but I can't be the Buddha. But actually, the Buddha's teaching you about your Buddha nature. Or if you have a really, really advanced sensei, that sensei is teaching you how to be that level. And so, I like the dojo, because in the dojo you can take someone from a white belt to a black belt, to a second of your black belt, to a third of your black belt, even if the sensei is a tenth of your black belt, once you get to a black belt, then you are able to share and teach like the real deal. So I was really happy to read these experiences in the desert. They were experiences of light, magic, and power. And you know, when I first met Rama, I was like, I'm a nobody, and this guy can walk on air. You know, I was like, whoa, he's super magical. And I can walk on air, because I learned it from him. I could turn invisible, make my head into a light bulb. You know, so I learned these sit-ups. All the students talked about this and I was like, wow, he's magical. And then eventually from the transmissions and me being open and practicing, I was transmitted the same teachings, the same sit-ups. And I am totally open to my teacher and that's why his energy comes through me. So there's enlightenment and then there's Rama which is extended and then there's me and I extend Rama. So it's very, you know, kind of like, you know, object-oriented thing. And then, you know, I have my own little methods. But I have the big tool set from the super class. And that's really the way it is. And that's what you enter into when you enter the program. This is the program. The study is the program. You enter the program, and then you do it. So to be able to do it, you have to be open because if you say, no, I don't want the super class. So enlightenment is the superest class. But then Rama and his methods were really good. And that's why, that's what I do. Like I'm using Rama methods. And then when I saw this desert trip, people were like, it was as if it was Sambara. I saw a light and all these wonderful things. And it's because these teachers who were there were using the methods of the school. It's not even the methods of me. It's the methods of the school. I would say it's the methods of Rama. And they used them completely selflessly. And that's why it was super enlightening, powerful, and magical. So that's really good. That's the way to do it. Do not make a mistake when you're using these methods. You have to be extremely clear that you're following the Dharma when you execute an enlightened method. But this is a school that teaches you all of that. So I'm like, okay, here's how to do a spinning hook kick. I'll teach you that. And then if you do it wrong in a fight, it's not easy to pull off. And if you do it wrong, you're at a big disadvantage. But if you pull it off, it knocks the other guy out. So the techniques, you have to know how, you have to be really good at them, really selfless at them, use them at the right time, use them in the right way. Yeah, so all showdowns have these transmissions. And the thing is that you got the magic and use the magic properly. Don't mess around with it. Never. If you mess around with these methods and you do it from an egotistical point, you want to prove yourself or something like that, you will create, even if you're enlightened, a lot of trouble and karma and you will suffer because of it. It has to only come from complete selflessness and it also has to come from seeing. Just being selfless isn't enough. You have to see what you're talking about. So if you want to show spinning hook kick and you're talking to white belts, you might be messing up. So you have a, you know, all showdowns have the full transmissions. So it's a big, you know, tool test. And you have to absolutely know that you're using the right tool for the right situation. And if you don't know, then don't do it. You'll get in so much trouble. You can't use the tools wrong on people because if you do, you will hurt them with a tool that's supposed to build them. And if you do that, then you're a big fuck up. And guess what's gonna happen? You're gonna hurt that person and you're gonna experience bad karma too. So, even if you're liberated, you go out there and fuck up with the teaching, you're going to go, ah, you'll have trouble. You'll have a whole mess of trouble. So I have to commend the teachers who went to the desert because I felt in second intention it was really done very well. Really perfect dimensions, amazing insights, true teachings. And then when I was able to read what the students experienced, they were like, well, I thought that maybe, because Simbar's not here, it wouldn't be so strong, but it was exactly the same as if Simbar was here. And if you do that, that's doing it right. So the thing is, just in the hierarchy, if I didn't know Rama and you just knew me, you would not have any of this, because I'm extending the powers of Rama. If I didn't know Rama and I was just extending the powers of Jeff Malone, it would be really lame. That's true. The only reason that I'm very magical is because I learned from a very magical person and I've been extended that, I've been given that. So we are blessed with these insights and powers, with the Dharma. If you're very selfless, you have insight, you can help people, and then eternity can come through you in 10,000 dimensions, because that's what we get from... That's what I got from my teacher. Those are his methods. And he extends those from enlightenment. So, all Shodons can do this. To be very selfless, to be still. And if you need to, you can transmit or you can show magic or something like that. You can do all sorts of things. The things that, you know, all the magic that you've ever seen from me. And then you can develop it more and more and more and more and more. So the group that went to the desert did a good job. And if ever you want to teach someone, do a transmission, do an empowerment, do a desert trip, you can do it. Be impeccable, number one. Like, don't mess up. To mess up as a teacher, even if you're an arhant, don't mess up. It is not good. Take this very seriously. It's the greatest, most important etiquette. If you're going to do a spiritual transmission or show a spiritual teaching or take someone on a power trip or something like that, you can't mess up. Because if you do, it's the worst karma. And it happens for arhats. They're like, oh, I'm at such a high level of awareness, I'm going to take someone to a situation where they crash and burn. And then the Arhant has a lot of trouble. There is a karma for that. Even Hakuin was talking about that. Hakuin was teaching this one monk, and he yelled at him and gave him a hard time and was trying to show him something. And then the monk went crazy. And then Hakuin was like, and he's this great enlightened master, he's like, I made a mistake. It was trouble for him. It was trouble for his mind. And he couldn't help the guy because the guy already flipped. So, you know, they didn't have like anti-psychotic meds and he couldn't help them. And he was just like, wow, that was a mistake. He was like, that was the mistake of my life. And that's not a good thing at all. And especially having a great, famous, enlightened master saying, I messed up teaching someone. It means that you can mess up, even if you're an arhant, right? So, you guys have an arsenal,

0:22:05
but you need to use it wisely.

0:22:06
An arsenal can blow away someone's ego, but it could also blow someone up. It can blow up someone's spirit. And you have to be very careful. You can take people on power trips, you can give them power mats, you can do transmissions, you can do all the same things. What's that movie called, someone's Emporium? Mr. MacGlorian's Wonder Emporium. Yeah, like that totally reminds me of like drama. So it's like Mr. MacGlorian is this guy who's super magical and then you know, this girl's working with him, and it's like, yeah, you're totally magical, so of course you can do all these crazy things. But then eventually, at the end, she does this little magical dance, and she realizes that she's magical, too. So, this is the truth. It's like, enlightenment is the fact of the of how it is. But there's this wonderful thing that we are extended very important transmissions, powers, and empowerments, and skill sets from our super class. And they're things that we can use, but you've got to use them right. You have to have selflessness and seeing when you use it. So I think that the group that went down to Joshua Tree did a very good job. It's very impeccable, very selfless. Yeah, all the teachings, insight and powerful and wonderful. And I encourage anyone who's a Shodan to share or do a transmission or do an empowerment to anyone in the Sangha. Because if you come across a person who you're opening to, then be authentic and use what you have. Be selfless and come from a place of seeing. And even if you try to do that, you might make a mistake. But it's, that's the right kind of mistake to make. But really, really, really, this is, there's such an important etiquette of when you're going to use these powers. That you are selfless and that you come from a place of seeing where it's the right thing to help that person. Don't mess up, because trouble abounds. Okay, that's what I wanted to say to you guys. Dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun.

0:25:00
We're all Bodons and Chodons here, right?

0:25:02
Yeah, but man, that was so cool.

0:25:05
I mean, so that's the thing. Like, I'm, I'm really, really strong in the second intention. So I'm like, when, when I feel what's going on in like the desert, or if you're going to make a transmission to someone, then I'm like,

0:25:41
Oh!

0:25:42
I'm like, I am right there! But also, with me, it feels like, as if Rama's right here. And then he extends out from, enlightenment's right here. And guess what? Um, enlightenment, Rama, and Sambara are everywhere! But I do have those skill sets where I'm a support for you, just like Rama's a support for me. That's the way that it works. Because if I didn't have Rama, I would be useless to you, and if you didn't have me, you would have whatever the fuck you have. I guarantee it's super fucking lame. I'm not kidding. I'm not kidding. I say that for myself. The little skill sets that I've developed are so small compared to the power that was extended to me from Rama that I became strong in. It's like if I go into a karate dojo and they teach you a kata, and if you develop yourself through that form, guess what? You develop power. But if I make up my own kata, yeah, I never took a karate class, but I saw some karate movies, so I'm making up my own karate katas, guess what? It's not going to be so developmental. It'll be coming from whatever the fuck I know. But then Funakoshi knew a lot more. He knew a lot more, and so he was able to create a system where if you do it... So, you know, get out of here with yourself, if you think you're better. It's garbage. We follow the way of great masters in martial arts and in spirituality. Because if we made up our own karate system before we had a black belt, you're an idiot. And if you think your spirituality is better than the teachings of the Buddha or something like that, then get out of here. Right?

0:28:00
Yeah. You know, unless you were born from a lotus. Then I'll listen.

0:28:05
But otherwise, yeah, we're gonna follow these other guys. I'm gonna listen to Padmas and Bhabhas teachings,

0:28:11
and Buddhas teachings, and Ramas teachings.

0:28:13
Yeah. So, very important teachings. You have an arsenal of amazing things that you can do, but let it unfold at the right time. Don't try to push it. See when it's right. Feel when it's right. Do it with selflessness and with seeing and above all things impeccability. So all showdowns. You guys have an arsenal. But, you know, there's a lot of ST1s and ST2s who have got the same transmissions and they are absolutely idiots. Absolutely don't know how to use it, don't know when to use it, don't use it, don't think they can use it, they're just shut down like crazy. So I'm like, okay. You can get the transmissions and go take a nap. Or you can get the transmissions and go be a nut. And both ways suck, so be awake.

0:29:26
Awake means that you're impeccable,

0:29:28
that you're selfless, and that you're seeing. Okay. Thank you all so much. 감사합니다. Be well and be 12. Inside joke. I take these

0:29:55
Yeah, they're still tonight.

0:29:57
Yeah?

0:29:58
Oh, oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, one other point.

0:30:02
One other point, okay.

0:30:04
So, the whole Ananda Loa thing, we're still under construction, but everything sucks, and it's your fault. Just kidding, yeah, it is your fault. I don't mind things going slow, but man, you know, like, we should like, this is a very special place, like, very few people bring the right attention Anyway, so, um, I'm appointing Ketu to be what we call a protector of the Dharma. And this is where he is looking at where people are interacting together or doing things Where is bad? he's a protector of the Dharma is like a protector of a temple and They they only let in people pure of heart and then if someone's not pure of heart they correct it So in Japanese they call it neo Like like a Dharma Pala. It's neo so He's neo. He's the one. And, yeah, and so he is going to be really looking at the etiquette of people here. Because it's been bad. It has been bad. Like, when I first told you guys about this place, it's a place of joy. I'm filled with joy every day. I wake up, I'm all, ah! I pop out of bed, I'm all excited. I come out, I look at the ocean, and I'm like, wow, I'm in Hawaii, it's amazing! And I'm very happy, like, dealing with people going,

0:32:23
I hate everything in the universe. I'm like, oh, okay. And some people were going, oh, no, oh, like, now!

0:32:29
And then people come here and little explosions go off. This is why I gave this teaching today about where everything falls apart. Because, man, in the past month, everything fell apart. Even last night, everything fell apart. Everything that's good, wonderful, fell apart. And you had to let it. And the thing is when things fall apart for you, you can't get violent. You can't get angry. You can't act from karma. You have to open up. And you have to... When things fall apart, the teaching of this place is to have joy. It is to, when things fall apart, it's to be like, okay, so, yeah, girlfriend left me, my dad died, lost my job, got in a car accident, fell off a cliff, got broken up, whatever. All this horrible stuff happens and you say, you have to find that joy, you have to let that self go and you have to be happy. That is the yoga of this place. But this might be kind of an advanced yoga because so many people don't do it. But that's the yoga of this place and if you're in a conflict with that, because you want trouble, then you're in trouble. Then you cause, you've got some difficult situations going on. So, yeah. So Neo is the one who's going to be like, making sure that the etiquette is right and that the structures are right. He's looking at this place as, this is the spiritual temple and this is the place of the yoga of joy. And if there's conflicts with that, then we're going to fix that. And he's very, a Dharma protector. So being a Neo, he has power. Yeah, power. There's a very special power in being a Neo. So if you ever need to talk to him about structures or etiquette about the temple or spiritual refuge, then you can come over to him and say, Neo, I want to talk to you. But if you're just talking to him as Ketu, then you can talk to him as Ketu. But when it's important and it's about structures here, then when you say Neo, then you're invoking that power. Yeah. So, y'all motherfuckers better watch out! Neo is a Dharma Protector. You guys ever go to God Protection Temple?

0:35:43
Yeah.

0:35:44
Yeah, I love that place. There's all these, there's the Buddha, then there's all these badass motherfuckers. Neos. Yeah, it's really cool. All right, everyone, thank you very much. Have a good day. Be well. And shokran.

0:36:03
Shokran?

0:36:04
Oh, you got it?

0:36:05
Okay.

0:36:06
One, I was like, is anyone going to get this? One, I was like, is anyone going to get this? Yeah.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
