0:00:00
All right, we're going to begin with meditation. One song, focused on the third eye. Sit up nice and straight, and let's begin.

0:00:13
so So the the the so the the the the the the the So, So so So so the the the the the the the the the the the the the the

0:04:02
Okay. So, I'll start off on a positive note. So, a song is a beautiful thing. And, you know, I was, you know, recently meeting with the Sangha, the Enlightenment Sangha in New York. And they're amazing. They're wonderful. So powerful group of enlightened people together doing wonderful things. They are the example of what a Sangha should be. So when I sit with them, it's very, very hot. Now I've said this to you guys a lot. I'm like, I've seen lots of enlightened teachers. They're all cool. I like what they do. They're wonderful. They're magical. All this cool stuff. But my meditation is higher than being with those teachers, right? So I'm like, well, I like them, they're great, it's positive. But my meditation, my personal meditation is way, way, way higher than my experience with them. Now, this group in New York, my experience with them is that when I meditate with them, they take me way higher than my meditation. They're a group, it's a small group, but it's a group of enlightened students. They're very, very, very high. They're a very strong sangha. They work together, they do yoga together. They're powerful, they're bright, they're amazing. And so when I'm hanging out with them, I'm like, this is what my sangha should be. Problem is that we're not there yet. But they say to me, they say, your sangha is strong and functional. And they say most sanghas are not functional. They might be spiritual, but not functional. So they say that your sangha is strong, spiritual and functional. So they say that's quite special. But they also say that you guys are like, just weighing me down. They're like, they're telling me, move to New York, leave your sangha. Like this yoga with us is higher. And I'm like, not sure I'm going to do that yet. But we have to work on some things. So what I see from them, you know, I learn from them and from their yoga, and I want to see it, you know, come up here. So what I learned from being part of that group is that I wanna make a lot of their strengths into our group, and that would be wonderful. But you have to do your part. So how is your yoga? Is it happy and strong, with the momentum? You're learning, you're challenged, but you're growing. That's what yoga should be. But if you have a bad attitude, if you're not doing it, and if you're stressed, those are just states of mind. Those are bad states of mind in leadership. The leaders of Buddha Dojo failed because they went, they burnt out, two of them quit. They were like, oh, if you can yoga into the ground and then you burn out and quit, that's not good yoga. Your yoga was not good. Your yoga was horrible. It's not spiritual practice. It's not spiritual practice if you burn out doing it and quit the pathway to enlightenment. I'm like, that is horrible. And so the Buddha dojo was built wrong. I gave a vision and it was built, I mean, a lot of the people who did like technical work and stuff, you guys did fine, but the people running the boat, leading the ship, sank it. So the Buddha Dojo failed because of bad yoga. And it's a horrible example in the school. You guys remember when I was telling you the vision of the Buddha Dojo? It's a very high vision. It's a very strong dharma. And the captains of the boat sank it. The sailors were like, what do you want me to do? Okay, put up the sail, batten down the hatches. You know, they are batten down.

0:14:57
Batten them down again.

0:14:58
So yeah, so it's that the leadership sank the boat. So now the boat is sunk, now we're submarine, just kidding. Now we're in a Bardo, but we're going to come out of the Bardo and the mission, the dharma of the Buddha Dojo, it's strong and it's worth reincarnating. So when we reincarnate, we're going to create a new form, a new way. And it's going to be a way of bringing meditation, but it's gonna be a little bit more attuned to actually our specialty. So we're gonna start to get more of a niche market. And what we're gonna focus on is we're gonna focus on teaching meditation and mindfulness to career-minded people, to professionals, to people who kind of do jobs. We're going to talk in terms of their situation. We know what it is to have a profession, a career, and to also have meditation and mindfulness in it. We know job yoga, right? So we're going to have to make all of our messaging around, you have a stressful job, are you trying to handle your career? And we're gonna talk about all of our messaging is gonna be about if you have a job, if you have a career, if you have these stresses, here's how you do meditation and mindfulness and job yoga. That's gonna be our way, our niche. That's who we're gonna talk to. So lots of these, there's a lot of people who are stressed in their work. I think I heard something on NPR where like 36% of America says they're burnt out at work. And they really need to, like you need to refresh and you need to be mindful, you need to have a positive energy and you need to do yoga in your work. And yes, we live in a world of high demand. But if you do yoga, it should be something that makes you strong. So we're going to kind of have that niche. A lot of these people in our target demographic, they're going to calm, they're going to headspace, and they're getting basic meditation and mindfulness techniques. But they're not getting something that is talking specifically to, you know, them as career professionals.

0:17:48
So, you know, we're gonna have some segments in there

0:17:50
about like, let's say, sales. So for example, EJ has been a strong sales yogi, and he knows the sales problems. He knows what salespeople go through. So there'll be a part that talks about sales. There's gonna be a part that talks about tech, right? So it's like, there's certain stresses that tech people go through that some of us might understand and be able to talk to. And then in general, there's going to be job yoga. So we're going to go from general enlightenment for all to a niche. We're going to be talking to a big stress for a lot of people. We're going to talk about job yoga, career yoga, and meditation and mindfulness for professionals. So we're going to reincarnate, we're going to shift, we're going to start getting more focused. But in order to do that, we need yogis. We need yogis that are going to step up, that are going to refresh, repurpose, and that are going to make this happen. Good energy. So the thing that you got to do, if you're going to do this, you have to live what we're selling. That means that if you're selling yoga, you have to do yoga. You have to come to your yoga with good energy, dealing with stress, with an open mind, mindfulness, like, you know, you have to like bring good energy to what you're doing. And then in that website, in that video, in that product, people will feel what yoga is. So what's the Buddha dojo feel like? Running into the ground and quitting the pathway to enlightenment. That's what the Buddha dojo was. And that's why it died. And that's not good. It's not good. It's really bad. It's so funny, guys. So, yogis have to do more. Now, Shodans, for a reason. I'm giving you a hard time for a long time for a reason, because something's off. And if I'm yelling at you, and you have a little problem with me, then there's something off in your head. You're like, Sombra's mean, Sombra's wrong, Sombra this, Sombra that. Like if I'm yelling at you and you have some interference, there's something wrong with you. Because there's a lot of people, there's a lot of really great showdowns and arhants who say, I really love Sombra, everything's great. And when you yell at us, all those things, yeah, you're totally right. It makes me so bright and happy. And they don't have a problem and they also see what I'm talking about. So when I'm yelling at you and you disagree with me, and you have a problem with me, then I would say, check yourself. So showdowns, we're at a crossroads. We're at a crossroads. I'm pushing a change. I'm bringing the bar up, because that's what I do. So showdowns, you need to come up or get out. Now, if you're here right with me at this crossroads and you wanna get out, fine, but it's not bowing out. It's a dishonorable discharge because you have been following this lesson, you've been in my dojo up until this point, and you're unwilling. And I'm giving you a hard time about it, absolutely. And having a dishonorable discharge from your spiritual teacher is not a good thing. But if that's the way you wanna go, that's a choice that you get to make. So you have to recommit to yoga. You have to submit to me what your yoga is. So every shodhan needs to do yoga. And I want you to submit to me what your yoga is. Your yoga can be, I'm very open about what your yoga could be. I want you to do yoga. So like, you know, Chandi does like, she does those beautiful paintings as yoga. That's yoga! So it's like, I mean, and some people do Sangha org stuff. Some people do a business. That's good. I don't know what your yoga is, but I want you to reboot your yoga in your mind. And I want you to resubmit it to me. Tell me what your yoga is, and then I will look at it. It will be re-established in the structure of this dojo. If you don't like the structure of the dojo, and you feel pressured, and you feel like, I don't like Samphara, like some bar he's he's bitchy or something then we're at a crossroads i'm giving you a hard time because we're at a crossroads in fact i'm raising the tuition for showdowns so we're gonna go up a hundred dollars so just tuition this is what rom rempenshay did all the time he's like oh then you guys are funky, money. And then it makes you go, ah, I gotta pay more. It registers with your toenail. It's not about the money, but now it is. So no, this is what I did. Now, you guys, so now you have to pay, just show it on, it's not boat ons. Now you have to pay $800 a month. In 1996, I was paying $1,200 a month and making $65 an hour. So it's like, it's not impossible, but it just registers raising a tuition registers in your mind that I am gonna be more committed because tuition went up. You get it?

0:24:41
It's a simple structure.

0:24:42
So tuition's up, crossroads, yoga. No showdown cannot do yoga. If you don't wanna do yoga, if you're not committed to yoga, there's the door. Doors are everywhere.

0:25:00
There's lots of ways out.

0:25:01
Yeah, but at the same time, if you've been here with me this long

0:25:05
and you're not listening,

0:25:07
and then you want to choose a door as Ram Rampershah would say there's the door but the door will follow you. So anyway you guys got to bring it up. You know this really gets back to you know what I talked about at the enlightenment teaching. It is Ram And I think that's one of the cliches, last teaching, was called the loyalty teaching, or the Zen test of loyalty. And the last thing, very powerful, from most like, I'm loyal, and he said, and then he gave us this test of loyalty. And it's very, very powerful. Now, one of the things I'm very proud of is that I passed that test. And in my dojo, you have to be loyal. And that just means if you're in my dojo, you have to be impeccable in my dojo. You can be in my dojo and another dojo. Like if you're doing karate with me and you're taking judo, do karate impeccably with me. And I also hope that what you learn from my school, when you're in the other dojo, you bring power over there. Like you have good etiquette, you're strong over there. You can do karate and judo at the same time. It's just that when you're here, you are an impeccable karate student. You know, I'm trying to explain that to you guys. So I'm not saying it has to be my way or the highway, but in my dojo, it's my way, or the highway.

0:27:00
And you can also do something else, right?

0:27:03
So you just have to be impeccable here. And a beautiful thing I saw about loyalty recently was, I heard that you guys remember, Shannon and his students right. So, Shannon is not doing well, he's got health problems. and supporting them. And that's, I mean, that is strong. You know, so that's, yeah, loyalty. That's coming together, you know,

0:27:38
and that's showing respect.

0:27:41
You know, it's like, you have to like, you know, look at what you got. You got really strong things. And if you're like, oh no, this environment is full of crap, I'm gonna, and I go to Ani Ashanti now and he tells me higher things. But I would say quit your job and take his job advice, right? Don't do your career anymore, quit job yoga and take his career advice, which he kind of doesn't give. And everybody does whatever, right? So just don't do that. Or, you know, or it's like saying, you're not my sensei because now I'm doing judo

0:28:35
or something like that.

0:28:36
And then like, when someone tries to mug you, throws a punch at you, that reaction that blocks it, like get rid of that reaction, right? You have a trained reaction from your study of martial arts with me. You have a trained attention from yoga with me. So actually, even if you quit your tech job, whatever you do, you're gonna have yoga, job yoga in what you do. So you have to look at what you got out of it. You gotta kind of re-examine what's going on here. And don't be so negative. Some of you guys are so negative. You're so reactive to me. And I'm like, well, you know, and that's why we're at a crossroads because you have to recommit and refocus on your yoga. Examine what you've gotten out of this school. And if you're just, you know, like having reactions to me, then you need to examine yourself because I'm pointing out something in your ego that's bugging you. And it doesn't bug everybody. There's lots of shodans and arhants who say, wow, when you yell at us, and I totally see what you're talking about, about people in the sangha, you know, like, feeling higher, special, learned this from some other teacher, whatever, blah, blah, blah. And they're like, yeah, you're nailing it, and it's so strong, it's really bright, I'm so happy about it. And they're also looking at other teachers and the ones that I point out, like it's all good. It's just that if you have a problem with it, you're at a crossroads. I'm pointing out something in you. And if you have a problem with me and I've been your teacher for a while, you should listen. You should be careful. If you wanna file a high yoga, a high way, a high dharma, it's loyalty. If you could look at what you've learned and say, this is powerful and strong, maybe I should honor it, and maybe if I have some weird problem, maybe I should listen and examine it until I don't have a problem at all. Then there'll be no problem. But right now, it's a problem. Yeah, I think that this is an important time. We need to kind of reorg. So I want to have a, I want to have a Sangha org meeting, and we need to reorg, simplify things? I don't like a lot of bureaucracy. I wanna get to clean, efficient organization. And then from that, we can rebuild the Buddha Dojo, probably gonna be rebranded. And then we can move on, but let's get our organization strong. Let's meet, look at the org, clean it up, reorg it, make it strong, make sure that the people leading it are committed, and then our organization can move forward with stronger yoga. This will help everyone. Yeah, so it's a new day in a new way. We're coming into, we're gonna be coming out of the barter. Right now we're in the Siddha barter.

0:31:57
The barter will be coming.

0:31:58
We're gonna become something, but we're not there yet. We're kind of sitting there going, what am I doing? When am I gonna be born? Which way will I go? Yeah, so we're gonna come out of the barter. And it's good. So, showdowns need to submit to me what their yoga is. Explain your yoga. And your yoga, it can be something that you personally do. It could be teaching, it could be sangha org, it could be a business. I want you to tell me, explain to me what your yoga is. So, if you say, you know, I'm on legal desk, I'll go, got it. Right. But you can be like, you know, oh, yeah, Dakini, Dakini was like telling me about, she's going to be teaching farming here. And also the spiritual connection in farming and connecting to plants and stuff. That's a yoga. It's a strong yoga. So, you know, as a Shodan, you might have a special yoga. That's great, tell me what it is. And when you're telling me what it is, I'm accepting it in tonal and it becomes part of your yoga in the dojo. So I'm very open to what your yoga is, but showdance yoga. And, oh, someone here. So, um, I also want to say, um, to showdance, um, if you have had your enlightenment experience, check with me. So send me an email describing your enlightenment experience and then I will respond to it. So I've had a couple of people who had a salvacopa samadhi and they said, I'm enlightened. And I'm like, no, that's just a salve cup of spice. That's really good. But that's not moksha. That's not enlightenment yet. So keep going. So it's a really good thing. But it's not quite that. Enlightenment is a very real thing. And I know that, you know, even after enlightenment, all sorts of things can be tricky, but enlightenment is a real thing. I can see it. And what it is, is, you know, I don't know, what do we call it? Sometimes they say your aura is like an egg, and you're like, everything that you see is a reflection of yourself. And then enlightenment is at least a pinprick hole in that egg, where you can kind of look through the hole and see what's outside, which is eternity, right? But it is, it's a real thing. It's a pinprick in that self, that egg is like, everybody's running around in the name. It's like Easter's coming, you know? And, but then enlightenment is a pinprick through, and then that is some enlightenment. A salvacopa samadhi, it doesn't create, I mean, it's a state of mind that's perfect, but it doesn't create a condition of that whole always being there. So enlightenment is the real thing. If you think you became enlightened, tell me and describe, send me an email and describe your experience and I'll tell you if it's true or not. So, because if you just assume you had a self-assembly and you go, oh yeah, I assume I'm enlightened. Don't make assumptions. When you make assumptions, makes an ass out of you and umptions. Okay. So, yeah, so there's something I was talking to Chi about.

0:36:22
So, lots of great showdowns.

0:36:26
Lots of great teachers, but we have to do some load balancing. What we're going to have is we're going to have one great calendar. One great calendar. And on this great calendar, there's going to be, first of all, my teachings and satsangs. It's going to have my European trips, so you guys see where I'm going. If you want to join, you know, you can see what's going on. Definitely, I would like you to attend my satsangs. But then, you know, there's gonna be, you have to teach in Bodie Woods, and there's gonna be special power trips that the Bodie Woodsians go on. And the Bodie Woods group might invite the Bay Area to, you know, the whole Bay Area to Bodie Woods or to trips of power. We're going to have the Bay Area group, we're gonna have a couple Arhants, wait, sorry, a couple Abbotts of the Bay Area group. So now we're gonna, they're really not Abbotts, they're gonna be kind of the leaders. I want like Raja and Sati to kind of lead the Bay Area group, kind of manage them. So, you know, we've seen how the habits of Bodhiwoods are so strong. They have beautiful energy, they manage really well together. That's a strong, powerful thing that's happening in our Sangha. And it makes Bodhiwoods run really well. And it uplifts people. Yogis are changing and growing like it should be. That's what should happen. So anyway, I want some more leadership and structure in the Bay Area. So I'm like, okay, so maybe Sati and Raja can bring some more structure, lift up the Bay Area group. And then they could say, we're gonna do some stuff to Mount Tam. Hey, Abbots of Bodhi Woods, if you guys wanna come, you guys can come. Right, so we're going into this dojo model, right? We have a central organization, but we have groups that are in different places. We have the same thing in Hungary. We have a leadership team that runs, you know, the whole Hungarian sangha really well. It's very powerful. So we have different things going on, but we need one calendar. Because we need to see what's going on everywhere, and we need to load balance, because we can't have like one weekend a trip to the ends of Borrego with the Abbots of Bodie Woods, where they invite everybody in the Bay Area. And the next weekend, Raj is taking people to Shasta. And the next weekend, Sati is taking people to Santa Fe. It's too much. You guys know, like, don't do too much, right? It's like, it could be, it's just an overload, right? So you guys know with me, it's basically been a long, it's been once a month with me, right? And then a power trip probably twice a year. So that is very powerful, but we can do more. But we have to be very careful that we don't do too much. So there's a lot of showdowns who are very strong, they're very motivated, they're very good at teaching. And I just wanna make sure that we're teaching at a proper level. And I would say that a proper level is for a student to partake of maybe twice a week teachings and meditations. And then once a month power trip. That would be as much as there should be. So if you go to, you know, Shen's teaching and you're like, wow, that was amazing. And then, you know, on a Wednesday, you go to Raj's teaching. Wonderful. So that's a good balance. And then there's going to be, you know, Chi taking people to the hands of Borrego. Okay, let's do that, you know, let's have that for a month. And then if Satsang wants to take people to Shasta, schedule that for the next month. Then it's going to be balanced. So now the big organization with multiple dojos and interaction and then the overall, you know, like, join my Satsang, just watch me on Zoom, I'm all, hey! So, then this is a balanced way that we can move forward as an organization. And then every showdown can find a place to teach. Anyone who wants to teach, I want you to teach. Teaching is a very powerful thing and sharing in your school is a wonderful thing. So I want to talk about sharing. Okay. So when you teach, the best things for you to do is share insight and recapitulation. So one of the things that I always tell you and what we've practiced over and over, even in the Anza Parraigo, it's like, what did you see? Just tell me what your experience was. Don't add anything to it. Tell me what your experience was. And you, even in the antebrego, you stand up and you say, I saw this, I felt this, and this is what I realized.

0:42:38
That's a seeing.

0:42:40
And then when I ask you for a recapitulation of a time of power, I don't want you to like add stuff to it, right? I always yell at you if you start adding things to it. Just tell me, if you're recapitulating, just tell me what happened. Just clean, right? No added stuff, no added self, a clean explanation of what happened. And then when you do that, that experience comes out and people It's like Parvati last week was talking about some very powerful experiences that she had as a yogi, pivotal experiences. And when she told it, she just said what happened. And it was so powerful. So this is what you got to do. That's a recapitulation if you're teaching and you're like, let me tell you about teach you about meditation and let me tell you about my meditation experience let me tell you about what I learned let me tell you about an experience where I Started you know actually practicing every day and how I figured that out and you just tell the story of what happened then That teaches people that's a very powerful Expression because it comes from your experience and your experience is powerful. So recapitulation is very strong. The other aspect of teaching when you teach is insight. So when you're going to teach, you're like, you know what? I've been doing yoga for a while and I've come to have an insight. I've come to understand something about yoga and let me share that understanding with you, right? So that is a powerful thing. You've gained wisdom, understanding, and insight from your experience. And then you share it with the group. So when you're gonna give a teaching, those are the two things that I want you to be aware of. What insight am I giving to people? And even if I don't have insight, what's my experience that I can share with people? And then that's beautiful teaching. Now, also, it's okay to teach other things. So like, if you wanna teach something that you've learned that's new, it might be like your own thing or might be something that you learned from another teacher, you can definitely do that. So, like, for example, I always point to raw is a good example. Because raw has learned from another teacher, he always brings it into the structure of the school. Because yeah, it's like when we're doing yoga here, but you can also see this. Yeah, so it's totally fine to be in another dojo. But when you're here, you have to work in the etiquette of the school. And you can share things from the other dojo, but you have to share it in a way where it works here. So, like, if I go to a Judo school and I come back to my karate school, I'm not going to start doing Judo throws in the karate class, right, because that's not what we do, but I can, if I'm going to be a black belt and say, I learned something in Judo that applies to karate, let me introduce this idea, this concept, this beautiful thing that I know. And I know you guys, I'm a black belt, you're a black, you're a karate guys, so I know what you know, and I can, I can tell you this in a way that you can understand it. Or if you read a book and have some insight, or if you want to get into art or something like that, you want to share it as a teaching. The same way I shared Mystic Scuba with you guys, or I'm with Chiquita with you guys, it was different things than kind of the core of our school, but they're fun and they're helpful. Right. And I apply it to the fundamental practices, so that it doesn't take away, it adds to. So if you learn something somewhere else. It's wonderful. But I want to see how you can integrate that without creating division. So, you know, it's bad when one becomes two. So, the problem with a lot of showdowns is, you know, it's like you go, Oh, I didn't sound he said that or David said that or something like that and I'm like, I don't care what they say. I like them, but in this dojo. from another teacher, then the beautiful thing would be, if it's so strong and amazing to you, then bring it to your fellows, bring it to your sangha, bring it to these people you've been with for years, bring it to them and make it stronger for them. If it's so good for you and you agree with it, then integrate it, like make it come in an integrated way, bring it in a beautiful way, and then it makes everyone stronger. So I don't want you guys using, you know, Adi Shanti or David or Satri or something as a means of division. That's so ridiculous. If it's so good, it should be something that brings everyone together. And if you like it and you're a Shodan, and you can share it with your fellows, with your people, you know this Sangha, you know this structure. If it's so good, then bring it into unity. Yeah. And some of you Shodans so bad, it's like you and rumors cloud you into separativity. And then creating all sorts of worlds of talking and counseling and all this garbage of separativity. Bad, bad on you. So crossroads, figure it out. If it's so good for you, bring it to your people. You know, share it, but in a way where it works. Dun, da, da, dun.

0:49:39
Okay.

0:49:39
Now I'd like to meditate with you. So now we're gonna meditate for three songs. Choose a chakra or not.

0:49:46
Okay. It says nice and straight.

0:49:49
And let's begin. Let's start nice and straight.

0:49:52
And let's begin.

0:49:53
so

0:50:03
so so you you so so so so So so you you So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Thank you. you so so so you so You're not alone. Excellent. All right, so new day, a new way, and what we're going to do is we're going to send

1:03:45
out to Shodan's spreadsheet, and I want you to add your name and tell me what your yoga is. If it's something special and unique, then maybe explain it a little bit, and then if I have to, I'll say, wait, what does that mean? Yeah, so this is important. And yeah, I want to just talk a little bit more about, you know, dealing with other teachers or other counselors outside of the song. So, for shut downs I'm like, yeah, you know there's, there's other teachers are really great. And, you know, there's this, there's counselors who are really cool. But especially with the counselors. getting counseling sessions with Maat, they had a problem with me. Entirely made up in their heads. And they went to Maat and stated it as fact. And she goes, whoa, Sombar is evil. He's a bad dude. That's wrong. That's terrible. And then, a year later, and remember when I was saying this back in Dharma Villa, I'm like, don't, I'm not saying she's wrong, but like, you can't get confused when you're dealing with her. And then a year later, they come to me and they go, oh yeah, that was totally in my head. I was lying, I was reacting. But now Ma'at believed that, and you made rumors that other people heard, and then they believed it, and then they got all upset, and then they go to Ma'at for counseling on it. And then, and she counseled them, like it's true. And then there's this whole circle of Maat's people who think I'm a jerk. Thanks to you guys having a bad reaction and going to get counseling for it. So if you're all in that, bad on you. You made bad karma. Don't do that. You don't do that. And then, now there's Sue Young, great, great counselor, she's available, but you know, people started doing that. They started making up these things that are just, Zinfar is evil like this, and they tell Sue, and then Sue's gonna go, what the? And then what is she gonna think? She's gonna think I'm doing those things, when I'm not. And then a year later, my student's going, yeah, I was just going through this thing and I had this weird idea about you. I'm like, look what you did. You can't do that. That's horrible, horrible etiquette to your teacher. You know, if you have a problem with me and you need counseling over it, you never tell me. You just go behind my back and say something to somebody else, right? To one of my peers. How dare you come to me and tell me the problem. None of you did that. None of you said, you know what, I have this idea in my head and I would talk to you and say, it's not true. And if you need counseling about it, let me come to your counseling session to tell the person my point of view. You never did that. You just made this whole big conspiracy

1:07:06
that you needed to get counseling from the counselor about.

1:07:09
The fuck out of here. That's the crossroads, you do. Bad energy, bad karma, not right, wrong. So yeah, if you're involved in that, you fucked up. You can unfuck up by letting go of that shit. But once you start hearing that and you hear a very high teacher counseling on, well, when somebody does this evil thing, I'm like, then you start believing it and that's the world you live in and it creates separation. Bad, you fucked up. Anyway, so try to fix that. Don't do that anymore. If you really need to talk to another teacher or counselor because you perceive something, like talk to me, point it out to me first. And then if you really need counseling over it, let's go to your counselor. And I'll say, this is what they're saying, and here's my point of view. And then they'll go, oh, okay. And they'll very clearly see it. And then they'll go, okay, now we know how to address that person. But if you're stating things as fact, when it's really not a fact, it's just something that you think, and you're going through some weird state of mind. It really messes up. I mean, like you're messing up a connection with me and like my peers. So I don't, and it's really bad for you to do. So anyway, yeah, don't do that. It's created really bad karma. And if you did that and you're still engaged in that, then you're not, that's your world. And it's not mine. So, cheers. Cheers for that.

1:08:53
Yeah, thanks, Mazel Tov.

1:08:55
Way to go.

1:08:55
Makes you happy, good. Makes you happy, good. All right, so long, folks.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
