0:00:00
So, I don't know if Japa got my text, but we're going to start with meditation. We're going to sit for one song. So, sit up nice and straight.

0:00:16
And, let's begin.

0:00:19
So the the the the so So, So you Alright, very nice. So, I'd like to thank you for showing up as we're getting ready, moving towards our special enlightenment teaching.

0:03:43
So we are going to have an enlightenment teaching, what is it, the 12th or something of June yeah so this teaching is quite a powerful teaching and it's powerful because one you know you have received the Kala practicing diligently. You're like, diligently? Even me? Yeah. Yeah. So you're doing, you're doing a good job. And it all works out after a while. I was teaching And the first week, the second week, it was like, whatever. You're just kind of figuring it out. But after a little while, you start to attune to that natural flow of energy that's in the form. And then you start to develop. You start to move together. You start to Move together and start to have a flow of chi. It happens from practice And so when you when you bring your attention to practice Even if you think you're really bad After a while you get really good so you're working on your practice and I think it's going really well. And my opinion matters more than yours. I see where it's going. I know the next steps. I know where it starts and where it ends. good. Now the essential thing that we're talking about recently, last week, this week, is overcoming samskaras. And overcoming samskaras is extremely important because if you can't break free from samskara then you won't be ever. So you have to really really take this teaching, this Kalachakra teaching of breaking free from samskara, from karma. So we have always learned from beginning Buddhism what universal law of cause and effect. But that's not a law that applies to everyone. There are states of existence where that law doesn't exist at all. You'd be going to someone there and saying, hey have you heard of karma? Wow, no, that's not the way the universe works.

0:08:23
There's parts of the universe where karma doesn't exist.

0:08:26
And those parts of the universe are the essence of the universe. So when you're in union, Tai Chi union, then yin and yang are connected. There's no one thing or another. It's all unity. And that's the heart of spirit. That's the heart of the universe. The heart of being union, there's no karma. There's no one thing or another thing. There's no action and result, even in its subtlest forms. So the Kalachakra, so it's very important that we discuss it now. That the Kalachakra empowers you to go from a place of stuck in karma to a place where you're beyond karma. And we can think of it as, you know, the worlds of karma are down here and then the Kalachakra pops you above the clouds. Then you can see the sun and the moon and the stars. So it pops you above the clouds. So it's important to actualize this aspect of the Kala Chakra teachings, because if you don't, you'll always be stuck in karma. And karma, as they say, is the son of a bitch. Even good karma traps you. And bad karma is no fun. So the game of karma is a certain existence, a certain aspect of reality. But it's not the ultimate aspect of reality. And there are limitless dimensions where karma doesn't exist at all. So we've got to get to those dimensions. When we meditate, we meditate on light. We might focus on chakra, but we're really, our intention is to experience light. our school and our structure, an accessibility to a palette of thousands of dimensions of light. It's in our forms. This light, that light, this light, that light. Every song albums, they all express the very pure dimension of life. And all the teachings have transmissions of life. So this light is, you can call it love, it's a unifying factor. It's a light the light that unifies your spirit, the finite with the eternal, your spirit with eternity. And in that unification, there's no karma. When you can slow down thought, stop thought, like you might have had a thought pattern that was going to bring you into like a train wreck and then by meditating you slowed down thought, got enough space, you didn't get good karma, you ended karma. So you've had that experience many times or many times sitting with me in satsang when I do the transmissions. Transmissions don't give you good karma. They lift you above karma. So you yourself you have been lifted from karmas many times. Sometimes by your meditation and sometimes by my teachings, my transmission. So karma is not like a hard rule, the law of karma, right? No, it's not a law, it's more like a guideline, tips and tricks, FAQ, maybe there's a little karma, stuff like that. What's happening to my elbow? Maybe a little karma, stuff like that, right? It's not a a fixed rule. Now for someone to incarnate and have zero karma would be really funny. They would like float around because gravity is a karma, a physical karma. I don't know how that would be. But many enlightened beings have incarnated and though they could spill water on the walls while they're drinking. I got a drinking problem! Whoops! They could do all sorts of stuff like that. But the thing that we spiritually talk about, about liberation from karma, is not that you'll have a perfect experience through the physical life. All enlightened teachers and the great ones, they all had physical debts. He said they had a spiritual freedom from karma. So Buddha would say at his arhants, once they became an arhant, they had no karma. And sometimes they did some strange things and the other monks were like, hey, that guy's enlightened, he's in Arhat, but he just went and did an asshole thing. And then Buddha's all, he's beyond karma. And then they're all, damn, I knew he was going So, yeah, and this is true. The Arhat is the same as the primary enlightenment in our school. It is, you get to a place where you get past the samskaras, you get higher than the samskara, you break out of the self-karmas. And then from there it's very easy to attain liberation. The samskaras are these past life tendencies and they, you know, it's like you might have had your first birth and then like the conditions of the time bothered you and maybe those things affected you so you're like,

0:16:54
oh, ouch.

0:16:55
And then moment by moment you would experience that for that lifetime. And then you created a pattern of how you perceive life. Consciousness comes through you and runs into these ruts. It's ruts of attention and when you were maybe first incarnate then, oh wow, there's certain things that bother me, certain things that I experienced and then the next lifetime you tend to, that's your karma, you tend to see things the same way and then a hundred thousand lifetimes later you tend to follow the same ruts from your first incarnation. That's why getting out of those, and that's the whole way, ruts of attention, the way that you see life. Your ultimate consciousness, it all comes in and hits these certain patterns of awareness, attention and you'll be like that's the way life is man that's who I am and that's not even true it's just that you are in karmas and samskaras and they're deep it's like you know if you're on a on a hill and you have a big water hose, you start pouring some water down, the karma of where that water hits starts to make a stream in a certain way. And then there's a force behind that stream and it goes down the mountain with that force. Now, if that force wasn't there, there was just some rain coming down in a place, it might not follow those same patterns. It's just that there's a force from before that makes it take a certain direction. But at the same time, in the Kala Chakra empowerment, you have been empowered with that lift that lifts you up, up above karma. You don't have to exist in karma. I mean, yeah, you know, in the physical world, yeah, yeah, but, but your spirit doesn't have to exist in karma. In the physical world you can get bludgeoned, you could fall off, you know, iceberg onto a penguin. I don't know. You know, all sorts of weird things can happen to you and yeah, it'll hurt. Maybe the penguin will be like a nice cushion. I don't know. All sorts of things can happen to your physical body.

0:20:04
But the most important thing is your spirit.

0:20:07
When you break out of samskara, then you don't follow the self patterns that hurt spirit. It's incredibly important to do. It's really interesting because when I got these teachings, I heard this teaching in one night and I didn't get a lot of feedback of what to do afterwards. But I'm telling you from experience, my personal experience and also of watching other enlightened teachers, other enlightened students, what they went through. So you definitely can be free of samsara. That is one of the principal powers of the And I remember, you know, Shiva was at the Kala Chakra empowerment that Rama gave. And he hadn't been around for years. And then all of a sudden he had invited back, there was a whole bunch of like random SD1s who I hadn't seen ever. And I'm like, who are these people? Are they okay? Okay, they're invited? Okay. And Shiva was one of them. Now, I remember Shiva telling me about his experience where he actually transcended his last samsara. was very, very, very, very, very high. And he was going into, you know, Sravaka Upasamadhi all the time. He was really, really high. But he had one thing that was bothering him and holding him back, and that was that he was really upset with, or he was really affected by the Sangha and what they thought of him. So most of the Sangha, Rama Sangha, really didn't like him. They were like, we hate this guy. David was a good friend of his. David is a very, very, very, very, very, very advanced, amazing, wonderful being. And he has a Rama sanctuary on the Isle of Skye in Scotland. So whenever this pandemic is over, we can go there. But David always really liked Shiva, but a lot of people just, like most of the people when I would talk about, oh yeah, Tony Chester or Sheila, they'd be like, oh, I hate that guy. And I'm like, whoa, a lot of bad reaction. I'm like, maybe he's not so bad then.

0:23:24
You guys hate his guts.

0:23:25
Maybe there's something going on. Anyway, so when I met him, I liked him a lot. But he told me about a time where he overcame his biggest sense of art, which was that he gave a care about what the other sangha members thought about him. And this is a big thing, because he was a student, and they were all crazy, and then they were empoweredly crazy. And he was like, wow. And they had all these judgments and all this negativity to him. And then they were all like, you know, giving him side-eye. And he said, I don't care. And he's like, he really looked at it, he felt it, they were all being mean to him, and you know, giving him a hard time and then he just said, I don't care, I'm letting that go. And when he let that go, he was free of that karma, and free of that samskara. And he had that samskara for many, many lifetimes. Many, many lifetimes he experienced the same karma over and over and over again. Where he was in a sangha, he's all loving and everyone hates his guts. Even in those bhakti yoga places, they're all like, Guru's great, except for this guy next to me is an asshole. Stuff like that. So that was a very powerful thing. He told me about it. And he said that was pivotal. So that was good. Or Agni Kala also told me about the pivotal time where he overcame his biggest difficulty. So Agni Kala, you know, he started going to Salva Kapasamadhi and started having insights and he was like oh my gosh yeah the kalachakra is so great and so he started sharing it with us but he was on the East Coast and everybody around it was like I think it was 80% ST1s And he was in like the last big yoga, he was the yoga leader. So when he said, hey everybody, I want to share something powerful and spiritual, a bunch of people came. More ST1s than ST2s. And then he started sharing something. He had insights from his meditation during the Kala Chakra practice he said he had insights from his Samadhi's he's like let me share this with you and all the st1's got super angry and they were like ah we hate your guts they're like, whaaaaaa, it doesn't do it for us. And also, mehhhh. So they got super angry at him. was they you know occult attacked him because that was what they used to do back then now they're just friendly happy puppy dogs You ripped up your leather furniture, you know, that's the kind of thing you're up to in life. No leather furniture in an envelope. Okay, so anyway, he went through this thing where after he gave from his heart and from his realization a teaching to try to help his friends, he thought, thanks. And then he went to Boulder, Colorado and he meditated there, like way out in nature somewhere by himself. And he was dealing with a conflict. And this is right up his alley, because he's a black belt and one of Rama's bodyguards. And he struggled to the end of self with conflict and occult dimensions. He struggled like crazy until he finally went, I'm free. Now this is like people trying to hit you with a spear and an arrow and an ax and a samurai sword. And he did that thing where he's like, he dealt with it all, he didn't fight it and go into karma. He went beyond the fight he will wade the art of war he selfless and went beyond the fight and he tried to tell me about it so listen bar you're having a hard time with all the difficult energies he's like I just have students. And then he's like, yeah, it's easy, man. He's like, you just play flute. I was like, bam! I was like, I saw that it was true with him, and I said, I want to believe you, I'd like to have that as well. But part of his enlightened city, his expression of enlightenment, is that he found enlightenment that way. He was so strong because of it. I had to go through three more rounds of things to get to that level of strength. But man, he did that. He got past this karma and he faced it like a warrior. Because he's a great warrior. And You've got to be warriors. What is your karma, your sanskara? What's your deal, brah? As we say on Oahu.

0:31:18
Or Long Beach, California.

0:31:19
Probably not Oahu. As we say in Long Beach, California.

0:31:21
Yeah, so, you've got to be real.

0:31:22
You've got to be real.

0:31:23
You've got to be a warrior.

0:31:24
You've got to be a warrior.

0:31:25
You've got to be a warrior.

0:31:26
You've got to be a warrior. You've got to be a warrior.

0:31:28
You've got to be a warrior.

0:31:29
You've got to be a warrior.

0:31:30
You've got to be a warrior.

0:31:31
You've got to be a warrior.

0:31:32
You've got to be a warrior. You've got to be a warrior.

0:31:34
You've got to be a warrior.

0:31:35
You've got to be a warrior. You've got to be a warrior. Yeah, so you gotta be real. And he was real. Whatever comes up for you is your battle. For him, he riled up a bunch of SD1s and they were like, oh, fuck. And then he had a big hard time with it, but he was able to transcend fighting. It was the Wu Wei of the Wu Wei. It was Wu Wei, but he did, actually. To get beyond his samskara, he did Wu Wei Do. And any of you who know Wu Wei Do, it's a big thing. It's a big thing. It's for real. It's like, I'm going to vanquish you with softness. I'm going to defend with inevitability. Yeah, so you've got to get into that, like, bigger picture, outside of where you're stuck. Because I know Agni Pala, when he was not enlightened, he was stuck as something that rhymes with stuck. And so can you. And so was I. But you have to look at what he did. He did an amazing thing. He did the way of way. And then Shiva was so selfless. It has to come from selflessness. Where is it going to come from to convince you? Do you have enough pain? Are you going to follow the teachings? Do you have enough hardship that you're going to follow the teachings?

0:34:01
If you...

0:34:02
We're going to do it right now, if you have a samskara fucking you up, we're elevating shit right now. The Kalachakra empowerment, that one empowerment is enough for your lifetime. This is just a little bonus support. You can be out of that occult battle, you can be out of that I suck, I will never be good. You can be out of that depression, that anger, forever. And have the ability to walk around that, oh, why would I step into that pool of lava?

0:34:51
No, this gives you the freedom.

0:34:54
I'm bringing that right now. This is the... I gave this in the Kalachakra empowerment. This is the way and an important part to be free and you've got to do it. You have to do it. If you don't do it, if you don't agree to it, if you don't want to sign a contract, sign your soul, I will say, I'm done with that pain. I'm done with that randomness. I'm done with that game. I'm done with that suffering. You got to get done with it. If you don't do that, you'll never be enlightened. Get done. I would like to do a meditation right now. just coming from that place where you're above the karmas. Karma doesn't exist. It's just a little joke. Bring your mind to the place of the Buddhas and the Arhats. You're not far from an Arhat. And Buddha said, I'm the same as an Arhat. That one touch changes everything.

0:36:41
This is it.

0:36:46
Listen to it now. I love that part in the Little Buddha movie.

0:36:53
It's a movie.

0:36:56
Keanu Reeves plays Buddha. It's great. And he's like, he's sitting under the Bodhi tree. He's like, architect. Architect, I see you now. Am I going to let you keep building?

0:37:24
No.

0:37:28
That is seeing. We are in the crux of enlightenment. It's not a big deal.

0:37:41
Let's sit.

0:37:42
We're going to raise this up. And now, no intention, no idea. Don't do anything. We're going to sit for a song and just look at me actually, the best for you right now. Let's start. Thanks, John.

0:38:14
You. So so Oh, So the the so So So I'm not afraid of the dark I'm not afraid of the dark That was just wonderful. Thank you so much. We're going to move on from here. We're going to move on from here. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
