0:00:00
All right, welcome. We're going to begin with meditation. So sit up nice and straight. We're just going to sit for one song. Okay, let's begin.

0:00:14
So, Thank you. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So, so So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so you All right, very nice. Okay. So, this is the Enlightenment class, the Enlightenment teaching, part three. And really I'm going to go over some things. There's no transmission, there's no empowerment in this one. It's just opening up what we've been through, what we've been experiencing and working on and experiencing it deeply.

0:05:19
So, it's a wonderful thing.

0:05:27
It's something that, you know, ultimately gets you out of suffering. And as I said, there's two aspects of enlightenment. And moksha is a good thing, and primary enlightenment is a good thing. Both are good. But even if you've obtained a primary enlightenment, then there's a higher enlightenment. But there's a good story, a parable, about moksha and primary enlightenment. It's an old Vedic story about the elephant and the alligator. So there's an elephant hanging out in a lake and there's an alligator in the lake. The alligator goes over and bites the elephant's leg. The elephant is going, ouch, I'm in pain. And then the elephant is a devout follower of Vishnu. So that the elephant in its suffering looks for some way out and calls to Vishnu and then the elephant sees Vishnu standing on the shore. So, so then in Moksha, the elephant is drawn to Vishnu and just goes to Vishnu instead of getting dragged down by the alligator, probably crocodile, sorry, alligators are in America. Instead of getting dragged down, the elephant goes, no, I'm going to make it out and walks out. So in this parable, the elephant is you. You are the elephant. And the lake is the lake of Samsara. And the crocodile is suffering. So to have the, being so drawn to Vishnu is liberation. You get out of the water and eventually the crocodile lets go of you and then you're just hanging out with Vishnu and then everything's cool. So that's enlightenment. That's moksha. Primary enlightenment is you see Vishnu, like you're like, oh my gosh, this is bad. I'm in a bad situation. A croc caught my leg and I reach out to Vishnu and I see Vishnu. And then you say, okay, now I'm free of my suffering. I'm free. And you don't even get out of the lake. You just accept that that's freedom. You stay in the lake, in the realm of samsara. You don't have to get out of it. Which, you know, one would say, maybe that's just crazy. That's what I tell you about primary enlightenment, it's crazy. But moksha makes a lot more sense. It's like, get out of it. But when you see Vishnu, that alone is that union and nothing has to change in your samsara condition. Whatever condition, whatever condition of karmas or samskaras or anything going on in the finite physical world, once you have that primary enlightenment, that union with Vishnu, then everything's okay. Everything's okay. So there's different types of enlightenments, different attainments. And in our school we have moksha and primary as the beginning, the beginning enlightenment. Your first three black belt. And they're very, very powerful. Now a lot of people have come to me and they have stuff that people are going into Samadhi and stuff and they're like, is that my enlightenment? And I'm like, did you notice the self coming back? And they're all yeah big time. Then it's not. They're like someone's all I'm enlightened and I'm all no you're not. And then they said oh well that will explain that phantom ego. When you attain moksha or primary enlightenment, there's a very definite thing that happens. You let go of the self, not just in a high meditation, but you let go of the self. And then the self never comes back. Or I would say the self comes back with a hole in it. A hole that's connected to eternity. Because to be even incarnate, to have a physical body, is to have some kind of what you can call karma or some kind of self. But the spirit can completely transcend that karma. Those are the higher enlightenment. So this is a way to understand things for someone who's not liberated. If you've had moksha or primary enlightenment, then that's great. And then classification doesn't matter. Once you have liberation, you don't need to say, am I this level or that level? You have to acknowledge your awakening and then see how it unfolds. It will unfold in a way, usually in our school, we kind of want to keep going higher and doing more. But just accept your liberation as liberation. And then don't worry. There's nothing, after liberation, there's nothing that you can do to get a higher attainment except for to just follow whatever happens. Follow the Dharma. And when the Dharma unfolds before you, you'll say, oh, okay, I wanna do that.

0:12:33
And it's good.

0:12:34
And then for those of you, who haven't become liberated yet, then you can have that determination for liberation. And the determination for liberation is to let go of the ideas of the self. You know, I think last time I said that the bubble on the foam on a wave in the ocean and that's how insignificant the self is. But we tend to make a big deal about the self. We attach to ideas of the self. I am this. I don't like this. Yeah, let's see. Yeah, it's like we have these really, really strong ideas of who we are, what we like, what we don't like. and our mind is completely caught up in the finite world, in the sans-sarc world. And that's just focusing on such a limited view of who you are that you miss the big picture. So you gotta let go. You gotta let go of these really, really, the things that like really make you angry. I mean, you're like, this is where you gotta like do push practice. You gotta like let go. Let go of all those fixed concepts. And then if you let go, then this beautiful liberation process occurs. But if you always are like, nope, this still pisses me off, and I agree with myself on that, then that's where you're at. That's the thing I would say practice bodhicitta on, but ultimately as an advanced student, you don't want enlightenment. You want that. You're like, no, but I don't like it because it hurts me. But you indulge in it. And so as long as you indulge in it, if that's what you want, you want anger, enmity, jealousy, depression. Like these teachings get to the heart of spirit where you can let go of all of those things. streams of conscious awareness in an ocean of enlightenment. And what's the difference between you and the ocean? You are a movement of conscious awareness within the ocean, but you're also the ocean. And enlightenment is awakening to that. But there has to be a purity. So what we do, you know, in the ocean there might be like a stream of water, and then what we do is we pollute that water with, you know, bad thoughts, bad feelings, and then the water definitely, it looks like, oh look, in this wonderful ocean there's this one And if we can drop our ideas, drop these things, what we say, this is me, this is who I am, this is what I like, this is what I don't like. If we can drop those, then that stream becomes extremely pure and not even the stream can tell the difference between the stream and the ocean. Which reminds me of a joke. So there's a Scotsman farmer, and he's farming. There's a little road going through, and a car drives, pulls over, the guy gets out and he walks over to this little stream, and he starts drinking from it. He's like, I'm gonna drink from the stream because I'm thirsty apparently. And the Scotsman yells at him, you know, and they're way up in the highlands, so he yells at him Gaelic. And he's like, and then Gaelic he says, don't drink from that stream. My sheep are uphill and they crap in that water. You're drinking sheep poo. And uh, guy just keeps drinking. The guy looks at him, and he keeps drinking. And then the Scotsman says it again. He's like, don't drink the water! Sheep poo water! And the guy looks at him again, keeps drinking. So he keeps drinking, and then the Scotsman runs down and says, what's the matter with you? And then the guy stops drinking and says, do you speak English? I don't speak Gaelic, I'm from London. And then Scott Smith says in English, I was saying drink with both hands. You'll get more in. So in every case, it's a good idea to have a pure stream. Now there's another way of appreciating your life and that is something very important. the first level of enlightenment is called the stream winner. And the stream winner is someone who is on the pathway to enlightenment. And the stream winner, Buddha said, will eventually at some point absolutely become enlightened and they can't help it. It's just going to happen. So, I remember when I was a stream winner. I think the stream winner, it happens, it could happen in your first meeting with your teacher can happen in the beginning study, but it definitely happens in the intermediate setting. But the stream winner is that is a wonderful and miraculous thing. And if you're not enlightened, you shouldn't have anxiety about enlightenment or doubt about enlightenment. Because if you're like, I don't know, is this medication going to do it or I think too much about it, it's definitely not going to happen. And if you have doubt, you're like, oh, other people could be enlightened, but I can't, then that's Because definitely all of you are streamliners, and all of you are on the path. And Buddha said, if you're a streamliner, eventually you'll become enlightened. But Rama said, that eventually could be a long time. So, you're on the path, and the path is good. The path is enlightenment. And I remember, I have to say, some of my favorite, most cherished experiences were being a streamliner, being on the path. That is good. If you're on the path it eventually will lead to enlightenment and being on the path itself, the fact that you are on the path is good. Yeah, you know, when I was studying with Rama and I was on the path there was something about it that was the best of the best, that is better than what I can do alone. Because I was with my teacher and my sangha going through all the lessons that we had to go through as knuckleheads, and it was beautiful and wonderful and powerful and amazing. So, it's important to recognize that being on the path is a refuge from the self, it's direction to enlightenment. And it in itself is a beautiful, magical, and wonderful thing. And you know, it's also possible that you could become more enlightened than a stream

0:21:42
winner.

0:21:43
But, you know, the teaching of the heart and the balance is that you can't push it, you know, you can't push love like, oh, I'm going to have more love in my life. I'm going to have more humility. I'm going to have, yeah, I'm going to have more love for my enemies. It doesn't happen right away, it unfolds. And we unfold these practices through bodhicitta, meditation on the heart, things like that. So you can't hurry enlightenment, but this is the fastest path. And so you need both sides of the coin. You need to be totally chill, no expectations, no anxiety, no doubt, and you need to be totally interested, completely focused. You need to have a very engaged intent and attention. And then enlightenment happens. So I'd like to have a meditation with you for three songs and meditate as you wish. But we're going to sit for three songs and we're going to bring open again these dimensions of enlightenment, both of accepting your Buddha nature and also of neti neti, both sides. Alright, so please sit up nice and straight and we'll sit for three songs. Let's begin.

0:23:36
so you the the You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. so the the the the the the the the So, so So You're not alone. the the the the the the the the the the the the the you the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the He will come, he will come, he will come. so So So So Oh, yeah so the the the the so you the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the The. the Oh, So So the the the the so You Okay, so this is very high. And before we go on, I think we should take a little break, 10 minutes. Feel your body come back. And I'll try to do the same. Yeah. But this is very, very beautiful. So we'll come back, we'll talk a little bit, and we'll meditate some more. Imagine, doing all this in Hawaii. Anyway, so, I think that this is what we need to do for tonight. So I guess there's going to be an enlightenment teaching, four.

0:35:16
Probably on Monday because the last meditation was enough. one-on-ones. Anyone needs office hours? I think that that is what we should do for today. You know, there's more. I think this is important. All right, so I would like to say thank you all so much.

0:54:27
And is Scott here?

0:54:31
Yeah? I would like to speak with Scott first. Scott was one of our Ananda Loa yogis. He's going back on a midnight train to Georgia. He is. He's going back to his family and has to work things out. Will he be back? Maybe. He's got to work stuff out with family and then he came here, different experience, has more learning, more personal power. Yet he still has more karma. But he's a good guy. I'm really happy that he's about this type here and he did a lot of good work here. So I'd like to speak with Scott first, but I'll be available for anyone else who's around on the island or on Zoom anytime. But while he's here, I'd like to speak with him first. So anyway, let's step forward. Maybe on Monday we're gonna have the last part, part four. You felt Lord of the Rings had part three?

0:56:09
Yeah, look at Star Wars.

0:56:10
We're gonna prequel the heck out of your ego. Anyway, just beautiful, wonderful meditation tonight. Very magical, very powerful. And these little indications that I'm elaborating on these ideas, these things, I'm elucidating and I'm pointing out new ideas. It's the same thing. There's just, how do you want to like accept it? Acceptance. Acceptance is balance. Acceptance is the opening of the heart. Acceptance is unity of the truth So a lot of different dimensions. But this power of enlightenment that started way before the solstice is raging in our sangha. And it's raging right now. Enlightenment is possible now. So don't think that enlightenment is some antiquated notion in some random zen book or like a Tibetan weird doctrine. You're like, no, no, in Lexington it's all like, if you, I, I studied for a time for several years, the actual secret doctrines of Tibet, because now they publish them. American publishers don't give a shit. They're like, I'm going to translate that,

0:58:29
and I'm going to publish it.

0:58:30
And they're like, but we'll put a disclaimer. This is rated R. Don't read this if you give a crap about what it means. Then, you know, I was watching rated R movies when I was a kid, a long time ago. I was like, I need to see the shining. Everyone says it's cool. So that's the thing with the secret teachings. Eventually, if they're really cool, even the people, you know, most of my friends didn't want to see the shining, but I thought, I want to see it. Gotta find the shining. Sneak me in theater. Gotta see it. I know, gotta know what the fuck the shining is. I was like, that's just getting freaking, you know, going to a bad place, power, getting negative influence and killing some black guy with an ax and you're a white guy, and now I'm all, oh, that changes the whole movie.

0:59:42
For reals.

0:59:43
I was like, oh, another white guy kills a black guy. What did you say, with an ax that changes it? Mostly, mostly that's what happened. That was like George Floyd up in Colorado in the Rockies. I didn't kid around about this because I'm Jewish. I see my scottie coming. This is my scottie.

1:00:15
Yes. Man, I told Scott to come here tonight.

1:00:22
I'm not doing a transmission.

1:00:26
Scott, please come over. Here, let's just sit in the middle.

1:00:35
Scott, have a seat.

1:00:39
Scott?

1:00:40
Scott is a hero of this place. Yeah. Snaps, claps, and I would have you know all my spiritual blessings for you. And then once I remember saying like hi to you, I'm all, oh hey you're on Matt Time, Matt Time. I was like hey what's up? So those are very powerful spiritual moments. But you came here because she said he's a good person, he's a good yogi. Because if she said, I don't know about him, maybe, or something, I would say, no. You came here because she said you're a good yogi. And I was like, I didn't know your picture from your, like, from, I knew I saw, I've seen you before, but I made a connection and second intention that Scott, this is a place of yoga, power, unity, and enlightenment for you. And you came here completely selflessly just do this as yoga amazing and in the process you learned a lot of new skills that's in the tonal but you a dialogue, a conversation with me. And we're like really good buddies now.

1:02:51
Yeah.

1:02:52
I gave him my phone number so we can text each other. And it's important, because I don't read email. And I do notice my texts, because when I go on Netflix and I want to watch a movie, text gets in the way. It's true, but um so if I if I give you my number and we have our connection, um anything that you need like ask me, I'll answer text. Send me an email, it's like sending it into Nirvana. You're like, hey Nirvana, how about a question like this? And Nirvana is just like.

1:03:40
No answer.

1:03:41
But, yeah, but if you've ever, you've done a really impeccable and beautiful job here. I think you learned a lot in the first detention and the second detention. And a really wonderful thing that you've done to come here is that you've made a really strong connection with me. And I think in our talks, they've opened up your personal power and your spirit in ways that would not have happened if you didn't come here. So, you are a great yogi of this place. I respect that. You've done well. So I wanted to say, thank you, Scott. Whereas Batman would say, great Scott. No, Robin would say that, treat Scott. No, I don't know what that means. So Scott's flying back to Sacramento and is gonna help his family. So his father's also a construction guy and they're doing a remodel in the house. So he's been helping his father. So he's gonna go back to his family and work on positive things there. But songs are on Zoom. You've got support from your mentor anytime you call and me too. I can do the Zoom calls with you but you got to text me first. You got to say, hey Simbar, hey Simbar, hey Simbar. Oh, what's this ring? Oh, it's Scott. Oh my gosh.

1:05:41
So, Scott, good job here.

1:05:42
You did a lot of help. A lot of beautiful things.

1:05:44
All the yogis here have done great work. I think you're an exemplar. Thank you. So, I'm going to go ahead and close out the session. I'm going to close out the session.

1:05:49
I'm going to close out the session.

1:05:50
I'm going to close out the session. I'm going to close out the session. I'm going to close out the session.

1:05:53
I'm going to close out the session.

1:05:54
I'm going to close out the session.

1:05:55
I'm going to close out the session.

1:05:56
I'm going to close out the session.

1:05:57
I'm going to close out the session.

1:05:58
I'm going to close out the session. I'm going to close out the session.

1:06:00
I'm going to close out the session. I'm going to close out the session. I'm going to close out the session.

1:06:03
I'm going to close out the session.

1:06:04
I'm going to close out the session.

1:06:05
Thank you.

1:06:07
So, um, yeah, so I'll meet with Scott first. Okay, good. And I just was wondering, it's got a 1015 flight. I just want to make sure I meet with him first, then I can meet with other people after but he's got to like, meet with me for however long that takes and then like make sure he's all packed and everything else. But just for everything, Scott.

1:06:36
Good job.

1:06:37
Good job is like one of the best things that a yogi can say to another yogi.

1:06:55
So thank you.

1:06:57
Alright, so we'll take a little break. I'm going to meet with Scott, but I can also meet with other people. And then we're going to have, I guess, the Enlightenment Teaching number four on Monday. and probably same time, 5 o'clock. And I have another thing that I want to work with you guys on, on Enlightenment Teaching Number 4. It seems like the more Enlightenment teachings we do, the more enlightened people get.

1:07:34
Laughter

1:07:38
And from the Enlightenment teaching number one there was supposed to be a certain thing but I only got like halfway through it. No no, then the second thing came and then now it's just lingering. Enlightenment is so lingering.

1:07:51
That's a good joke. Anyway, so thank you all so much.

1:07:53
It was very very beautiful, very very five to sit with you all.

1:07:54
It was really wonderful. And yeah, since I've got back, it's been a lot of important, strong things and good, wonderful things. And it looks like what's going to happen is the Enlightenment teaching, I'll do a satsang on Saturday for the whole sangha because the whole sangha needs it, but because what's happening now is it needs to go longer. This keeps that enlightenment energy, this enlightening energy going through that helps the whole sangha and probably, oh sorry it's gonna be on Sunday, it's gonna happen Sunday, yeah. So after Sunday, then I'll do the last teaching on Monday, and then we'll go into the next cycle. So Sunday also is a very, very powerful enlightenment teaching, and it's all being brought out from the enlightenment of all of you. from 12th of June all the way until now, until Saturday. All right, so thank you so much. All right, so thank you so much.

1:09:17
Kamsa Sam, leave now.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
