0:00:00
This is a stroll coming in from WRX. Subaru.

0:00:16
Look, it's what makes Subaru. And tonight we have a special song from the heart of spirits goes like this

0:00:31
oh my

0:00:34
you guys like my jokes?

0:00:36
okay all right so

0:00:40
it's late we're going to

0:00:44
have the final consideration for tonight tomorrow we're going to meet again and

0:00:46
we'll talk about other things but this is the main thing we've been heading in this direction and we've experienced the gradual the thing the thing that's the thing we're going to do it again we've talked a little bit, had some questions, gave you a little time to reflect. And we're going to do it again tomorrow. And also all the way up into the solstice. So it doesn't have to happen now. important to just be open and accept the teachings. Ultimately, you should answer your own questions. When you say, but I have this problem or confusion, then you That is my Buddha nature. So when things come up, recognize them as your enlightenment. Answer your own questions. So I'm not gonna answer any more questions tonight, but when you go back and say, but it's impossible because of this, and you say, what is this? And say, this is my enlightenment. This is my Buddha nature. There is nothing separate. There's nothing blocking. There is only enlightenment. It And take responsibility for yourself. It means taking responsibility for the universe. Everything bad is not against you.

0:02:57
It's part of you.

0:02:58
And it's not bad.

0:02:59
It might be pain, but it's not bad.

0:03:00
There's no good and there's no bad.

0:03:07
Everything is Buddha nature. Everything is enlightenment. There's no bad that happens in you anymore.

0:03:08
You have to say, the thing that I say is bad is Buddha nature. It's my enlightenment. There's no draw to I want this and I want that. Accept all things. So this is the night where if you want, you can wake up, be responsible, be a spiritual adult, and not a baby. Babies need things. Being an adult means you take responsibility for your life and your mind. And you can handle it. You can handle your difficulties and hardships. There's nothing you can't do. There's nothing that's found enlightenment in your mind and in your experience. So we're going to sit for one to three songs. I bet you this charm is going to be free. Third time's a charm. After five minutes. Oh, my light's going out. Alright, so, um, it's good. The battery's going down, so we're going to sit in silence. But if the music works, we'll listen to it until it decides to stop. One song, three songs, half a song, we'll see. But I'm going to do the transmission. We did the transmission before, it's not scary, no big deal. Now, don't expect anything, just chill out, just relax, just suck in some transmission. It's really not something to worry about.

0:05:31
Just open your mind, open your heart.

0:05:36
Tell yourself, I'm ready to accept my Buddha nature. Om mani padme hum, enlightenment is within me and I'm ready to accept it. Let's begin. It's going to be a quiet meditation. Enlightenment is within you.

0:06:26
Accept that.

0:06:29
And let's sit in silence. Okay.

0:06:35
Okay. Okay. Okay.

0:06:38
Okay.

0:06:39
Okay.

0:06:40
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Alright, that was meditation. It is so wonderful to sit here with you in this place. extremely elevated state of attention, whether you think so or not. So trust me, Ori, and just sit here in this place. This place has so much power and purity, whether you think so or not. It's amazing. Don't believe what you think. Believe in enlightenment. Don't believe what you think. Believe in enlightenment. And we're going to do it again tomorrow. We're going to continue with the teachings. I'll answer more questions tomorrow as well. But at some point during the day, write. Write recapitulation up until the moment of your writing. Whatever awareness. It doesn't have to be a lot. It could be like, at 11 I first thought, hey, who the fuck is God anyway? Then I met my meditation teacher. Then I said, who the fuck is Shambara anyway? Or whatever Anyway, whatever whatever your story is Write your story Doesn't have to be long has to be the right points Where you're clear brought you up to this And then we meet in the evening at the place of refuge And then we will all answer questions, we'll give more teachings, we'll do the transmission again. Because the transmission is, yeah, if you're lucky it happened tonight. And for some of you, you got lucky. But then it'll happen if you're lucky tomorrow. But then it's something that, it's a teaching that goes on. And the doorway, the best, the best way to get to the door is to have a conversation. And then we'll do the transmission again. And then we'll do the transmission again. And then we'll do the transmission again. And then we'll do the transmission again. And then we'll do the transmission again. And then we'll do the transmission again. And then we'll do the transmission again. And then we'll do the transmission again. And then we'll do the transmission again. And then we'll do the transmission again. And then we'll do the transmission again. And then we'll do the transmission again. And then we'll do the transmission again. And then we'll do the transmission again. And then we'll do the transmission again. And then we'll do the transmission again. It's something that, it's a teaching that goes on, and the doorway, the best, it goes beyond the solstice, but the best is to be able to learn this teaching, experience this teaching by the solstice. teaching by the solstice. And then I'll tell you some of the solstice instructions.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
