0:00:00
Hello everyone, welcome. We're going to begin with meditation. We're going to sit for one song, focused on the third eye.

0:00:11
Let's begin.

0:00:12
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So, you Wonderful. Enlightenment Teaching Part 2, The Flipside of Enlightenment. Enlightenment is beautiful. It's everything and it's nothing. So tonight we're going to talk about nothing.

0:02:55
The Buddha said that the self, the ego, the limited self, the person that you think you are, is as substantial as a bubble on foam in the ocean on a wave. This is true. The self is not, it doesn't last very long. And yet we cling to it as if it's for real forever, as if it's impossible to ever let go of. But it is completely transient. Just look at your thoughts. They might recur, but you can't hold a thought. You can't hold one thought for a long time because then they'll be following. long time because I'm not a follow home. Even the self that generates all these thoughts. And I think therefore I am. And you think that you are this person of your thoughts and your feelings. You can't hold on to a feeling forever. Everything is so transient within you, it's completely a bubble on a wave, the foam on a wave in the ocean. Now, this bubble is very limited. The bubble is limited. The bubble only has this much awareness. The bubble is like, I only am this bubble. Everything outside of it, the sky and the sea, that's not me. I'm this bubble. And when you exist in that bubble, you have a tremendous limitation. You are completely limited from the rest of the universe. And here's an important teaching. At some point, this becomes extremely boring. You become bored beyond belief. You know that movie reference?

0:07:34
LA story.

0:07:35
He's like sitting there, he's like writing on his window.

0:07:38
Bored beyond belief.

0:07:39
You get bored of yourself. Or Tom Hanks in Joe versus the Volcano, he's like, he's like, I'm so bored of myself. These are the places where you can escape yourself when you're bored. I'm totally bored. I'm bored of my suffering. I'm bored of my desires. I'm completely bored. Because the self is so limited and it just plays back the same thought patterns and the same feeling patterns. And it's so boring. It's like, what would you rather be? A spider or the most boring person in the world. Either way, you're a web developer. I'm going to make it up for you guys. But at some point you just, you see the same cycles go through, you see the same things happen, the same angers, negativity, reactions, and then if you're spiritually sure, you say, I'm so bored of the same self. So then you have to get out, you gotta break it, you have to explode, you gotta get out of that little bubble on the foam and the ocean, because that's too limited. It's too small. And you have to say, I got to release this. I got to break out of this bubble. But then you say, well, inside of this bubble is everything that I know. Inside of this bubble is me. And if this bubble breaks, then I will be gone. But actually, the same stuff inside of you is the same stuff out there. The spirit in you, the Atman, the enlightenment within you, is the same as the enlightenment outside of you, the Brahman outside of you. And so the great teaching of the Vedanta is that Atman is Brahman. That means that that special light that you know is you. Like when you get past all the karmas, there's a special light in you that you feel. That's me. And then when you can come into unity with the enlightenment outside, the bubble bursts.

0:10:49
So,

0:10:50
you gotta get so bored with yourself

0:10:53
that you look for an answer.

0:10:54
And you gotta get past fear. Because when you say, no, my little bubble will burst. And once your little bubble bursts, then you're one with everything, with the sky and the sea. But when you're in the little bubble, you're just, you know, the wind could blow and mess up your bubble, the waves could turn and mess up your bubble, and you're all worried about your little bubble. Guess what? Fuck your bubble. I mean, don't literally do that. But yeah, fuck your bubble. So, it's interesting, I see this a lot in politics. A person will hold on to a concept or an opinion that gives them a certain satisfaction, a certain kind of power, but is not true. Just like, I'm just going to say it, the Republicans love them. I voted for Trump. The Republicans are holding onto power and concepts like there isn't global warming. And they're holding onto it because in the short term it gives them power and money. In the long term, it kills our economy. But they don't care about them. They have an opinion that in the short term gives them something. And then the long term, it's out of balance with truth. That's what the ego does. Schwantze used to say, you could tell, he said, people are stupid. You could say, I'll give you one banana right now, or tomorrow I'll give you five bananas. And he said, people will take the banana right now. It's true. And I also heard this in a NPR story where they took little kids and they said, I'll give you a marshmallow right now, or if you wait 15 minutes, I'll give you three marshmallows. And guess what, like 80% of the kids ate the marshmallows. So, I can't stop, I can't stop. It's really cute that that's what happens. But that's the truth. People, when you're acting from this operating system of fear and desire, you're just going to act on what you want in the moment. When you can let go of the self. This is why we call enlightenment sacrificing the self. It's not killing yourself. It's sacrificing ego clingy. The thing that you want the most, that you're most attached to, you have to kill that motherfucker, string her up on a cross, whatever you got to do, you're reincarnated without incarnation. So when when the self is acting and wanting and fearing, you have to point out that some of my students. Are extremely afraid of the vaccine. And that's because they're caught up in a whole bunch of illusion. Things that they read on the Internet conspiracy theories. Bill Gates because I got vaccinated, so I am controlled by Bill Gates. I am teaching enlightenment through Microsoft. Or whatever, or they're like, well, I don't know what the best education is going to be. Well, are you a PhD? Do you know what it is? No, you hear what stupid people say about stupid things who make up everything in the world. Oh, the 5G's. You're an idiot. You know nothing. And I have to say to you, don't take your car to get fixed next time it breaks because mechanics, every mechanic across the world is a conspiracy and they're going to put a bug in your car and that is going to control your car and drive it off a cliff. That's how stupid you are. So fuck you, dumb assholes. And if that's where you come from in your heart, you are so stuck in karma, kind of forget about enlightenment. Or if you think, if all your ego is facing fear, then you have to say, I'm going to follow my enlightened teacher and jump right. Naropa was following a teacher, Tulopa, and Naropa, Tulopa said hey if you want enlightenment see this cliff jump off. And he was like hmm if I jump off this cliff I'm afraid that I will die. And he said, well, you came to me, you want to enlighten me or not, because you don't have to. You can leave if you don't want to enlighten me. But then Nareba said, no, I've seen the light in you. I trust you. And if this brings my death, I give myself selflessly to the direction of my enlightened teacher. And he jumps off and he falls and then he doesn't die. He's back on top of the cliff without evil, without fear, without self. So I just had to bring that up as a thing. That's a self. That's what a self is. I probably have to say this the whole song. But if you're a showdown, like, get the fuck out of here. What's your problem? You really don't want an enlightenment? You want to exist in concept fear and what they say on the internet, and you're not a PhD student, you don't know fucking anything? You're an idiot? it? Okay, well then that's your decision. That's your path. You can take that path. Follow that path. Enjoy. It's not my path. I've been teaching a path. My path is successful.

0:18:11
For enlightenment, there's no

0:18:12
prerequisites, but at some point, we're here in the moment at a heightened level of attention, and there's nothing to work on. There's nothing to develop. There's nothing to do. You're like, well, before I became enlightened, I had to do this, and this, and this. That's not true. Enlightenment can happen right now. Instant enlightenment satori. Without overcoming obstacles. Without going to the mountain, going to the cave, spending 20 years in an ashram or whatever. Time and space does not exist. There's nothing that you have to do. There's no prerequisites for enlightenment. There's just the acceptance of your Buddha nature and the letting go of anything that stops it. Everything that's false. So, I'd like to sit with you for one song. And in not thinking that you have to do something, you don't have to do something. You have to do nothing. And doing nothing is easy. Yeah, like, like, it's true that enlightenment is within you. The first teaching was of your Buddha nature. And this is the thing where you have to say, I don't have to do anything. I have to let go of everything. I call it trash for cash, right? Letting go. And when you let go, you let go of all this garbage of the self. Everyone's holding on, self-defending. Let go of the self. And when your hand is open, then you're fulfilled with diamonds, the diamonds of truth.

0:21:16
But you gotta look out of the trash.

0:21:17
All the lines, all the desires, all the fear, all the concepts, let go of it. And when you let go, you open. So like I said,

0:21:27
for one song,

0:21:28
focus on the third eye, and just in this song, just let go. All right, let's begin. So, Thank you. the the the the so the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Thank you. you This is very good. This brings us into the principle teaching, which is the practice of negation. In accepting your Buddha nature, it's opening and accepting everything as your Buddha nature. And in the practice of negation, it is letting go of everything that is not enlightened. It's two sides of the same coin.

0:25:40
It's the same thing. But it's two expressions. So a tremendous, wonderful power of our June 12 teaching, the first teaching of the Enlightenment teaching, it was a power of accepting your enlightenment. And for a lot of people that worked. But now if that didn't happen and you had hang-ups, you can't do it, you don't accept your enlightenment, you don't believe you can be enlightened, you were like, I can't because I have self. Then this teaching, powerful teaching, this is the teaching of letting go of that self that says, no, I can't.

0:28:50
That there's a block, that there's a block in me,

0:28:54
something that stops me from reaching my Buddha nature. You can let that go. This I like to call the double flush. Sometimes one flush is just enough. But yeah, this is where you flush the idea of the self. You actually let it go. And there's a powerful teaching here. It's a teaching I've given you before called Neti Neti. Not this, not this, not this, not that, not the other thing. Nothing is real. Anything that you can conceive of, of your self or mind is not your true self. It's this thing where you go in and look at the self and you say, all that I see of the self is false and I have to let go of all of that so I can burst the bubble and be one with

0:30:06
all things.

0:30:13
So it's a mantra. This is a mantra that you have to have and it is a mantra you can see it in any language that is meaningful for you. So if you're really into Sanskrit, say neti neti. If that's magical for you, you can say that. I say to Americans, say not this. It's powerful. Not this. For the Americans, I remember when we moved from Hawaii to Chicago, you guys had a lot of power, but there was still a lot of karma to break through. And I said, we built this company and we worked for some years developing it. And now that we moved to Chicago, I have to give you a mantra to help you get your job as soon as possible. And that mantra was, fuck you. So, that means that whenever you came across opposition, you would say in your navel chakra, you would say, fuck you. And it doesn't mean that you're saying, fuck you to a person, you're saying fuck you to a limited situation, and it shattered that karma so that you can move up in your personal power. And it was very successful. So here we say, not this, not this. If anything comes up in your mind, a feeling, a thought, a limitation, a doubt, dissolves. It goes along. This is a, this is a mantra. Or if you're Hungarian, you need to say, um, I'm gonna, I'm just gonna, I'm gonna go out there on my, my Hungarian words. Bozmag nem. Okay, two things I can say in here is fuck this. Sorry, it's more than that. No. Yeah, I know, that's where I'm coming from. this, or you can say fuck this. Fuck this shit. I love that California thing. Fuck this shit. Would you really want to do that? No, it's a rejection. It's a rejection. It has to be a personal mantra of rejection. I would say for Americans, we should say not this. But if you're Hungarian, you should say, if it's more powerful for you to say not this in Hungarian. How do you say not this in Hungarian? Nemez. Yeah, probably from my hood, I'd be all, fuck that shit. But just saying, not this, is generally powerful. But for African Americans, fuck that shit. That's like even more powerful. So, you know, like find your, I don't accept this situation in your language. What's powerful for you? So easy is, you know, if you want to go into this, it's powerful for you to go to the Sanskrit and say, neti neti. Not this. It's powerful, very powerful, but it's most powerful for you to say it in your way. And it could be, not this, which I recommend for Americans, or you could also say, you know, not this shit or fuck that,

0:34:30
or fuck this, or fuck so.

0:34:32
You have to have your power words, right? Whatever it is for you and in your language, what is your word of no, not accepting? Like no, uh-uh. And then when you see your ego clinging and yourself and your desire show up in your mind you say nem ez You say not this or fuck that shit or whatever you have to say where you in your heart Let it go and say this is not something I'm going to let go of this ego clinging. It's extremely powerful and extremely important. You have to recognize that when the self comes up and makes desires, attachments, and fears and things like that, that you can't accept it. You have to say no no no no no no no no. When you go into your little mind games you have to recognize it and you have to use mantra. Drop it. Drop the self and then the spirit is open and it's filled with light. Believe your Buddha nature and it's filled with light. So it's the same coin, two sides, and both is light. But if you didn't accept your good in nature because you didn't think you could, you're like, oh, I can't be enlightened because I have still some things that I think about. Then this is the second part. Let go of those things, drop them, say not this. And when you drop them, you're filled with light. It's important. This is the primary teaching. Now with the regular Yana Yoga yoga practices of neti neti or who am I and stuff like that. They have in earlier ages been extremely enlightening, quick path to enlightenment. But now at least in the Kali Yuga, unless you're an extremely advanced yogi, it's just really ridiculous. It's funny, it's a joke because you're just going from concept to concept. You're like, oh, who am I? I'm just a definition. And then you say, okay, now I learned this thing called, you know, Advaita or Yoga. And then I start to say, well, I have a different idea. I am not that.

0:37:33
Who am I?

0:37:34
I am not that, which I think I am. This is what you know like the majority of Advaita and Jnani yoga people do. They come up with the opposite concept. I have a self-concept and now that I learned this yoga it is my opposite concept. Opposite concepts are still concepts. So very, very, very few, except for the most advanced can break through. And it's really funny when you talk to Advaita people or Yana Yoga people, there are just so mental, conceptual, and not actual. That's why I say you need to do some karma yoga. Break that shit down. So, they, they are, they're, they're extremely mental. These days, long time ago, they were actual. These days, only the highest, highest, highest can do it, but there's millions of people who are definitely drawn to this stuff. and they are just caught in the mentalness of it. But this is messy, messy. This is not this, not this, but this is not this for real. So we don't just go from, well, I'm aware of myself. So I'm going to come up with a concept and say, I am not that, and then I can talk about, Oh, how am I not myself? How am I not myself? How am I not myself? I'll make a movie. This is how I'm not myself. So, um, but here's the thing that I really recognize as a transformative way of Advaita It is to ask, you know, how am I not myself? It is to inquire and to think it, but then to come to a deep feeling. So, if I say, I'm not even a person, and I say, wait, but I am a person, and then I say, oh, netty netty, I'm not a person. It's not this. Then very often you're just in these clouds of like ideas and concepts. You're living in a mental awareness and the mental awareness doesn't get down to what you really are. So the way that I really experience experience the wisdom of the self, the liberation of the self, is to ask some questions like, who am I? When you ask that question, there you go, you might say, I'm going to give an example. Let's pretend you're a mom. That's a big deal. I'm a mom. I think that's a really strong, powerful karma. I'm a mom. Some of you are. And you say, I'm a mom, and that means all sorts of things. All sorts of things. There's so much responsibility, so much identity about you being a mom. Anything? All right well let me ask some questions. When I was 16 was I a mom? Hopefully not. You're all, no I wasn't a mom when I was 16 but now I have kids so now I'm a mom. What if, God forbid, your kids were killed in a car accident? Are you still a mom? They're dead. You have no motherly duties. Before you had kids or after you had kids, you're not a mom. If you're in the moment of raising children, you're a mom. So you have to start going, hmm, you have to ask those questions. You gotta start piecing it apart. And then you'll come to something deeper. If you say, when I was 16, I wasn't a mom. If my kids died tomorrow in a car accident, that would be sad, but I'm not a mom. And then you would have to say, maybe I'm not this big definition of my life. And if I'm not, then who am I? And then once you ask that question, the before or after, and then who am I, you're going to feel something. More than a concept, you're gonna feel, and maybe I'm not a mom, and you're gonna feel something. This is the contraction of awareness. This is the ego reaction. And you're gonna go, I am a mom. I am whatever self-identification is, whatever your thing is, you're saying, but I am this. You'll think about how you're not before, how you're not now. you'll feel it in your physical body, your sub-physical body, and in your causal body. Logically, I'm not a mom, but when I say that and think it through, I will feel a contraction of tension. And that will be, that's what I call the ego. Just going through concepts is useless. You have to feel the contraction of the ego. And then you say, that's where I use my mantras, not this. Just coming up with an idea is just stupid. Concepts and mental ideas are useless. You have to feel it to your core. And when you feel it to your core and you bring the power of not this, BAM! That's for real. So it's not a conceptual, oh, I think I'm this one, then I'm not this. That's another concept. You have to get to the core, where you feel it, at the core of your being. And then when you bring that not this power from this not this empowerment, it cuts that off. But you have to get to the root of the thought. The root doesn't matter.

0:45:17
And that's powerful.

0:45:18
So I would like to sit with you. And we're going to sit for half an hour. This is the letting go of the self. Not being in a concept. This is an enlightenment moment. This is the moment of being free. Concept, being free. Opening completely. So we're going to do two songs on my new two songs from the heart and two songs on third eye. So even though you have the other teachings two songs two songs two songs. And let's begin.

0:46:26
Let's begin. the the the the the the the the the the the the So, So the the the the so So, you you Thank you. so So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the so So You Thank you. so so so so so so so you the the the So so so the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so So so you So the the the the the the the the the the the the the So, the the the the the the So, so Thank you. you Thank you. the the the the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the the the the the the Thank you. Wonderful. So that was very beautiful.

1:12:50
It was very kind. Very enlightened meditation. Meditation that brings you up above self, where you can let go of the self, and open to your inner nature. It is a meditation of letting go. Letting go of the self, the ideas of the self, the concepts of the self, the trap of the self. It's a meditation of letting go. I have more teachings to give on this subject, but I let go of this so I can't talk further

1:13:40
on this subject.

1:13:41
So we can do it tomorrow. I have more of these teachings that are very, very powerful and building on the things that you've worked on tonight but the basic idea of enlightenment the enlightenment teaching part two is letting go of yourself all that energy that it takes to hold on to the self strangling your own being there's a bunch of garbage and these are the ways of letting go. When you let go, you let go of all the garbage, you also open up to your buddha nature. So I'd like to thank you for coming. It's beautiful to sit with you. It's so very powerful, natural, and wonderful. I can do some office hours for as long as I can stay awake

1:14:56
and then we will

1:14:58
proceed with the teachings tomorrow and then I'll see where I can fit in the rest of the teachings that I want to give you. because there's another transmission but the main transmission is

1:15:09
meti meti not this not this meti meti not this not this

1:15:12
this is the main transmission of enlightenment




Transcribed with Cockatoo
