0:00:00
Alright, we're going to start with meditation. We'll sit for one song from the Samadhi album. So sit nice and straight. And... Who's got the music? Okay, great. Chapa. So Chapa. One song from the meditation album. I'm like texting, I'm like, who should I text? All right, so any song. All right, so sit up nice and straight. And have focus on the heart. And let's begin. So, thank you.

0:00:43
So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So So So so so Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Okay. Right. So, we have Bodhans and Shodhans. This is where I have the teachings that are exciting to me. These are the off-the-cuff teachings. that we talk about kind of what's going on. Because I could give you know a very structured lesson in compassion. I can give that lesson for 10 years. I have a 10-year compassion program,

0:02:51
or a 10-year Buddhist mysticism program, or a 10-year job yoga program, right? So it's like we can talk about things forever. Some of my students are like, yep, I'm about 70% through this. So I see we have some people coming. Yeah, so off-the-cuff teachings. I'd like to talk about conflict. Conflict is good. I mean, that's what we do in martial arts. We do conflict. We work on conflict and conflict resolution. I was at a restaurant in Kailua-Kona. This is years ago. And there was this one guy from a MMA, a Brazilian Jiu Jitsu, no, it was MMA, mixed martial arts school. And he wore a t-shirt in the restaurant and it said, fighting solves everything. And I was like, oh, that's a good perspective. Yeah, so conflict management. Martial arts is about conflict management. So in martial arts, we have a great deal of attention, focus

0:07:51
and power.

0:07:51
And the whole point of it is to end a problem and the conflict. So there's, you know, the Karate, you know, way, which is, I will end this conflict, you know, by dominating you, but not hurting you. And that's a beautiful way. So, this is what we want to do. We want to have conflict, but we want to... I mean, there is conflict. There's not going to not be conflict. So don't think that, oh, you know, once everything's perfect for me, there will be no conflict. No, there will be conflict. There is conflict. Conflict is a very, very, very huge part of the world, the universe. The stories of the gods from Greece to India are stories of conflict. So you think you get reborn in a heaven world and then all of a sudden you get to just float around on pillows of clouds and everything's good with harps. Well, they got the harps, but there's still conflict. So conflict isn't bad. Don't get mad, don't get sad, because there's conflict. This is really important. The thing to do is to master conflict. The best demonstration of mastering conflict, there's lots of martial arts analogies. There's many techniques. Yana, our sensei, showed many techniques of mastery of martial arts, ending conflict in the most subtle ways. in action, in a big movement, we go back to the Mahabharata. So if you haven't read the Mahabharata, it's a good book to read. And this is where you can see Krishna. Krishna, enlightened, they call him an avatar, like this mega enlightened person. I'm just going to say mega enlightened. There's like little enlightened and then there's mega. There's it and he was it. So through the whole Mahabharata story you see Krishna coming in and doing these things, everything he said, every ploy he made was a way of dealing with a great war, great conflict, at the end of these cycles, these yugas, there's usually trepidation because it leads to a more difficult time. So he was at this time that was the end of the third yuga going into the fourth, the winter of our discontent, into the final Kali Yuga. And at these times there's a lot of conflict usually. And when you read the Mahabharata and you look at him, he's very, very, very skilled in dealing with conflict. jolly at the same time. So that's the way you want to be. You want to be skilled and jolly. So if you hit a conflict and then you end up sad and moby, then you're defeated. It's not the Krishna way. If you hit a conflict and you have mastery and power, and the conflict is for you a lesson, a teaching for you, an awakening moment for you to come up and be stronger. That's what you should do in a conflict. A martial artist doesn't get better from learning some moves and then never using them, never being challenged. So a martial artist gets better by being challenged. So when there is, don't look for the lack of challenge. I don't like people bothering me. I don't like people challenging me It hurts it's a bother of course It's never gonna stop This is what Buddha said this is not a new thing you. People praise you, people blame you. There's always conflict. There's always anger directed at you. You have to be a black belt. You have to be able to deal with it with skill and power and compassion. See, this is what we got to do. You can't get sad and mopey. You can't get angry and want revenge. All the things that I'm talking about are in the lojong. Don't lie in wait. Don't want revenge. Be grateful to everyone. Because if someone gives you a hard time, they're a teacher, if it's a hard time. But if you're impeccable and powerful, it's not even a hard time. You guys might notice that martial arts, if you're fighting someone that you're better than, it's easy to beat them and you don't have to hurt them. But when you're fighting someone, sparring someone, who's your equal or better, it's a lot of stress for you. But, if you deal with that in the most enlightened ways, that stress makes you stronger. And you learn lessons from someone who's better than you. So don't get, don't take it personal. Like in a dojo, if someone gets a point on you in a sparring match, you don't take it personal, because if you take it personal, you get all mad, and it degrades your attention. You get all funky. You get into the wrong state of mind, and you keep losing. So when you're in a dojo, and someone gets a point on you, you learn from that point. You go, oh, I kept my block too high. I should have lowered my block. So you gotta be, you gotta look at every interaction with your sphanga mates as an interaction like a dojo. They're not, don't take it personally, take it tactically. Look at the situation and say, hmm, have perspective. Practice bodhicitta. It's very important. to point out the great example of Bodhicitta and martial arts in conflict. So when we started this wonderful experiment of great wonder, it's called Ananda Aina, the Hawaii Spiritual Temple. When we started it, we had a lot of conflict in the beginning. We had yogis, basically advanced yogis and they all have great intent, but they have learned to have intent and success for themselves. And Ananda-Aina is a different energy. Ananda-Aina is a place of joy, of spiritual bliss. So it's a different energy that we have here. And so when people come with the old intermediate energy, and you come here and you're like, I'm gonna do my thing, Push your way, push your will, push, push. And these pushes are individual ideas of what you should make this into. And so this is good for the intermediate level, very, very good. But this is not an intermediate place. Ananda Aina is a place of advanced practice. So all the lessons of the intermediate, they give you a lot of tanao, a lot of personal power, but if you use your to push your agenda, your idea, it's just pushy, self pushiness, and you do that, it'll cause trouble. It doesn't create happiness. The mission of this place is Ananda, bliss, happiness, divine joy. And if you're pushing your way, it doesn't make that. It makes you. And in so many people here working, it creates, or who have an interest, it creates trouble, difficulty, hardship, stress. So that's what happened the first and then we did a restart. Let's redo this and then everybody went better. But I have to point out one beautiful thing in the hardest of the hardships where many of the great strong leaders of this have been great yogis and making this place happen. But, if you were of those great yogis, making this place happen, if you had a little bit of suffering, you had difficulty with someone,

0:21:30
conflict,

0:21:34
hardship, suffering, then that's where I'm coming in to tell you,

0:21:45
this is off.

0:21:50
If you have suffering, then there was something in the self that was off. And in the midst of all this difficulty I saw one example of bodhicitta and one example of resolving conflict. So there was one night where we had a meditation and afterwards there was a student who had been under a lot of pressure from all of these things and wasn't handling it perfectly, was very bothered. Great yogi, but not practicing compassion and had so much hardship pushed on them that they were full of stress and very, very hurt themselves. So then they came to Tara. This is my example. And they came to Tara and really yelled at them, or yelled at Tara, yelled all these problems that the student had been experiencing again and again in many ways. So it's like this student, advanced yogi, was not a bad person. student had a lot of stress from so many pushy yogis. And then the student blew up, exploded, erupted like a Hawaiian volcano. We're in Hawaii. And came to Tara and pushed all these grievances. These were class grievances, these were particular grievances, these were things that were kind of, to Tara, hey I'm not even in charge of that. But they were real grievances. But they were exploded upon times 10,000 because of that person's stress and pressure and personal pushiness. And you know what Tara did? didn't react, didn't go into self-defense mode, didn't say, this is all bullshit because 90% of what you're saying is totally untrue. Tara accepted the 10% that was true. Actually, it was all 10% true and 90% reaction. And that's what you get from a lot of people and if you don't get the 10% that's true then you're in denial. You have to look for the 10% that's true when someone tells you you know what you're a jerk. You go I'm not a jerk I things that weren't jerky. But no. If someone gives you a complaint, don't defend against it. Look to how it's a part of what you've done. Look to what they mean, even if they're stark raving mad. In that dimension, in that assemblage point, they know something. They're offended. A person is harmed. Even if they're crazy. If they say, you are Hitler and you're trying to bomb me with Jews or something, right? Whatever they say, even if they're totally crazy, you look at what karmic energy made them get mad or get upset towards me or whatever. There's something. And that's the quest of harmlessness. So Tard was the example of the whole school. Because I've seen many, many, many other great advanced students, and the moment that they got pushed back, hardship, yelled at, some kind of thing from other people, there was, I'm going to fight them, I don't agree with them, they're all wrong, all sorts of things, all sorts of reaction, but Tara did Bodhisita. And the rest of you, did you do Bodhisita? Did you enact it? Was it your response? And then I would say to you, check that. Because Tara could have been pushed down and said, fuck you, I never want to talk to you guys again. And Tara could have said, you guys are, I'm pushed down and I don't want to help anymore. And Tara could have said everything that an ego would say when being pushed and hurt.

0:28:16
But she didn't.

0:28:17
She listened.

0:28:19
And guess what?

0:28:20
Do you think it didn't hurt?

0:28:24
If you guys don't know Tara, Tara's a pretty sensitive being. She was like, ever since the beginning, very sensitive to bad energy. So you think that, well, I'm special. No, no, Tara is a very sensitive being. So Tara listened to the difficulty. She got hit, as you guys would say, with a hardship. But she didn't have any negativity. And this is the thing for all of you advanced students, because Tara's the one that did it. She had no negativity, no like, I hate you guys, I'm never going to talk to you again. She was like present with compassion. It happened right here in this room. So there were some ST3s, ST4s, ST5s who were here.

0:29:44
So this is what I'm talking about.

0:29:49
And also, TAR's a great example. And I'm also gonna give another example of me. So I have dealt with a lot of difficulty, people giving me a hard time, and in 10,000

0:30:18
ways.

0:30:19
And what I always bring is compassion and love and that's enlightenment. You can come to me with the hardest thing, the most terrible thing, terrible idea, the worst condition in your life, a loved one. And I'm real about that. And you can yell at me about everything that you think is wrong, and building the sangha, and running this great organization, our golden pyramid, be compassionate like Tara. That's the essence of who we are. And if you have a hard time with You know, love your enemy. I don't want to hurt my enemy. My enemy might come at me with weapons, and I will put them down with my power, so that they can't use those weapons to hurt me. They can't hurt me that's a power that helps you be stronger that helps them not get that energy Tara did that. That is enlightened activity. And the others? Angry, reactive, sorrowful, troubled, problem, against. Then you didn't live up to that enlightened ideal. You just didn't. You got mad, you got sad, you got reactive, you got whatever, you got self.

0:33:19
Tara.

0:33:20
Some of you were here. Tara showed enlightened selflessness, like Krishna. So, let's stop being bothered. I think we need to take a lesson from the Bronze Age. Do you guys remember the Bronze Age? No? No? The Bronze Age? I mean it was like before 1984. The Bronze Age was awesome. So the Bronze Age was a time of kingdoms and power. It was like the main time where we grew up into these city-states, kingdoms, Egypt! You know, these were places. The whole, like Italy, and like the whole Mediterranean this is the Western world I'm talking about because China was much more advanced but the Bronze Age for the Western world it's a great thing the Bronze Age do you know what makes bronze 90% copper and 10% tin. And because of that you had a network. So copper was everywhere, And 10% tin had to be distributed across the Bronze Age kingdoms, the Mediterranean, North and South. There was just copper, like really the Bronze Age was huge because bronze made a huge difference. And before bronze there was just copper. Copper is actually kind of too thin. It's not strong enough. You add tin to it and tin seems like not a strong metal, but copper and tin makes a good sword. Yeah so conflict and the uh The age of bronze was an age where kingdoms flourished. Kingdoms flourished. People flourished. This is the place where they consolidated. I mean this is a long time ago, but for western civilization, it was a big thing. Kingdoms consolidated, big palaces, kings and things, you know, like all over the Mediterranean. And it was really a strong, positive thing. So then what happened? The whole place, because of, they called it the Bronze Age, because bronze was good. And bronze is a good finish for Ananda Iyengar. But bronze was a big, beautiful thing. We have stronger weapons. Copper. This is a short age before the Bronze Age, Copper Age. And the copper was good, but it's like, you know, shooting people with pennies. You couldn't sharpen copper like you could bronze. But in the Copper Age, people really knew how to conduct themselves. And then Afghanistan became a huge thing. in Afghanistan. And that tin and copper made bronze. And bronze was stronger. And the Bronze Age. So the Bronze Age was powerful. And what ended the Bronze Age? Do you guys know? It was the Sea Peoples. So, the Egyptians noted this, because the Egyptians had great historical records. And they said, hey, at some point, the Bronze Age was great, and at some point, things come down. Things became difficult. And then the Sea Peoples came and destroyed Egypt. They destroyed every place in the Mediterranean. They killed Italy. Italy wasn't even Italy. they just destroyed everything. From Asia Minor, Turkey, to Italy, to Spain. And so, what created that ability for the Sea Peoples? And historians don't even know where the... It's like, why are there... So, they know that all of these countries, great empires. They were attacked by boats and they all lived on the Mediterranean. They don't know because they're modern. Because if they were back there in the day, they would know. So modern historians don't know. But they have this really cute thing. The sea people ended the Bronze Age. So I'm just going to go back to Egypt. All of the Mediterranean was wiped out by the sea peoples. They come in, they're wiping everything out. They come in on their boats And they went everywhere except for Egypt. Because you know why? Egypt for 400 years had an enemy to the southeast.

0:42:15
That enemy was called the Hittites.

0:42:19
And the Hittites were a strong group. They were the Nubians and then they became the Hittites. It's a very powerful group and they fought Egypt all the time. They had wars on and on So, the Sea Peoples came and hurt Egypt bad. And hurt the Hittites bad. And then the Hittites and the Egyptians said, You know what we gotta do? It's so bad. We gotta come together. The Sea Peoples, I mean like, they don't even have a country. They're just the Sea Peoples. They came together, they were stronger, and they were able to push off the Sea Peoples. And so the Bronze Age ended of this great rule of Europe. Except, The one place that didn't end was Egypt. Because the Hittites, the greatest enemies of Egypt, they became the greatest allies of Egypt, facing the Sea Peoples. I love how they say it, the Sea Peoples. They probably had some pretty good fish for dinner. But anyway, they came together and then eventually the Hittites became Egypt and they pushed off the Sea Peoples and they pushed off the end of the Bronze Age and Egypt lived and the Hittites lived in Egypt as a friendship. So, gotta take a lesson. There's another good lesson that I heard. So, North India, a thousand years ago, there were two city-states next to each other, kingdoms, fighting, battling. And it was throwing bread. It was basically a food fight, throwing bread at each other. And they're like, this works. We have a pact where we don't need to use arrows or swords. We will just throw bread at each other.

0:46:08
And so that was a great thing.

0:46:10
Yeah.

0:46:12
And it was called in their place,

0:46:15
the non-aggression pact. Okay, that's not... I know the Americans, the Europeans, may not get it. Non-aggression pact. Thank you. So... I would like to talk about how to take hardship and also bring love. So there's a great American singer, artist, and she's shown this way of conflict to to love and it's true. I'm gonna give Joppa a heads up that something that I I want all of us to hear. So Java on YouTube, it's something I've seen before on YouTube,

0:48:02
Dolly Parton,

0:48:04
her song, I will always love you. Now, when I heard this song the first time, it was Whitney Houston and my teacher shared it with me and he said, I want you to watch this movie. You're a bodyguard. You're security. He said, watch this movie six times. I watched it more than six times, but by six I got it. This is a really bright way. It's a good thing. It's a way where you have an understanding of love and care for all of us. And difficulties, difficulties. But we have I hope Joppa can find it.

0:50:04
just for a little bit and have a moment of appreciation for this.

0:50:16
Okay, Joppa, if you can do it.

0:50:18
You know how hard this is for me to say? I love you. Will you marry me?

0:50:22
Oh, Ed Earl, I've loved you since I was sixteen years old.

0:50:26
But I've thought about this for a long time.

0:50:29
There's much self-love that's at work.

0:50:32
I know deep down in my heart it ain't never gonna be.

0:50:35
Didn't you hear what I said?

0:50:37
I did, darling. But it's gonna always be just like it is.

0:51:15
There just ain't no way in this world it can work.

0:51:18
You can make it work. You just have to give it a chance.

0:51:23
If I should stay Well, I would only be in your way And so I'll go, and yet I know that I'll think of you each step of the way love you i will always love you bitter sweet memories i guess that's all i'll be taking with me.

0:52:26
Goodbye. Oh, please don't cry.

0:52:30
Cause we both know that I'm not what you need. But I will always love you. I will always love you.

0:53:00
I know you're going to get your dream.

0:53:03
And I know you're going to do a real good job in the legislature. But if you was to marry me...

0:53:16
Wait a second. I love you. I don't give a damn what people say. Jewel! Hold her right there!

0:53:25
What's that Sheriff? Which one is him, then? And which one's me? Oh, Cher! I always knew you'd come through! So It smells so good! Thank God. That's the best I've ever had.

0:54:14
Thank you so much, Joppa from Brigham's Brack from 1884. That was beautiful. That song was wonderful and also Burt Reynolds okay but oh my goodness Hawaii that's over that was like yeah 1984 okay so

0:55:27
but that song was good. And hey, everything that comes through the South, ain't that bad. And also, everyone in the South who has pain and suffering, and they're going to say, we're going to raid the Capitol. How about have a little bit of compassion for them and where they are, what they're going through. This world, the American world, ain't working.

0:56:13
It's busted.

0:56:14
And the fact that people in Kentucky were having a hard time and they're broken. They only know what they know. They're not wrong for their pain and their reactions. Like Tara.

0:56:49
Like Yana. Those are greats.

0:56:53
Those did the great thing at the great time. Those are greats. That's what you gotta do. can't bullshit shit you have to be powerful and strong so I'd like to thank

0:57:24
But I'm telling you,

0:57:28
don't be weak. Be strong.

0:57:33
Those of us who have known

0:57:35
Yohannan, be strong like him. His hardships, difficulties for decades and what he gave to us.

0:58:03
And you,

0:58:04
you got a hardship,

0:58:05
some difficult thought, be strong. Come from the place of bodhichitta.

0:58:13
Don't,

0:58:14
don't go into,

0:58:15
if you recognize

0:58:17
you're reacting, that's your problem. Reaction is the end. It's from Skara, it's a stuffet. And B, we're going to do meditation. So Java, also the Samadhi album, and three songs. Third eye. So don't worry.

0:59:33
Relax.

0:59:36
and everything that's happening. If you're an advanced student, see it as your way of enlightenment. And if there's something to learn, then learn it. Don't have a position of limitation. Don't say I'm bad. Say, what did I learn to go further?

1:00:11
Okay. I'd like to thank you. the the the so So So so So you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you and be well.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
