0:00:00
Let's begin. the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the So the the the the so the the the the the the the So you you so so so so so so so so you You Thank you. Oh, Thank you. the the the the the the the the so the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Okay. That's going to be kind of cold up here. It's not. Okay. Okay, so today we are going on a vision quest. A vision quest is where you kind of do something so that you can find a vision. So today we're

0:15:23
going on a vision quest. Now, very often vision quests are things where someone will go off And then the old Native Americans used to come up to Mt. Tamalpais actually for vision quests. And so on our quest we're going to be looking for that spiritual vision of practical enlightenment. This is because recently a student of mine, not an American, said, what good is enlightenment? And I was like, well, when you're enlightened, you're free. You're free from suffering. And you're happy. And she said, that sounds so stupid. And I was like, what? Are you kidding? She said, what is it with you Americans always wanting to be happy? I want to be happy. I want to be happy. I'm like, oh, it's nice. She's like, I don't care about happiness. I was like, really? Okay. She's like, there's And I said, yeah, that's true.

0:17:12
And then she said,

0:17:12
and I think suffering helps you build character. And I said, well, it's true too. So, well, you know, enlightenment does free you from suffering and does bring happiness. But what if you don't care about those things? Then what good is enlightenment? So, I had to answer her question. And I said, well, you know, enlightenment is also practical. Now, I knew she was in a master's degree program. So I said, so, for example, enlightenment helps you learn. And she was like, really? I said, yeah, absolutely. Enlightenment is being a student of life. It is having a clear mind, all the veils of different thought forms that will block you from being able to see, learn, and know, they go away. And then you can effectively learn anything, which is exhibited by Padmasambhava. Padmasambhava, he calls himself the self-born Buddha because he just, one day there was this lake in Afghanistan and he just appeared out of this glowing lotus of light. He just appeared as like a 10-year-old boy. Then he walked across the, in the center of the lake, he walks across the water and everyone is watching him going, wow. And then he goes, I'm Padmasambhava, the self-born Buddha and I'm here to teach you guys about enlightenment. And they're like, OK, cool. Then he starts saying, like, enlightenment is you, not everything, or everything is not you, or you're everything and everything, but I don't know. What does that have to do with me? So everybody actually left him. They were amazed by the miracle of his birth. So they listened for a while, but he was just way out there with his teachings. And they were all profound dharma. It was all profound truth. It's just that it couldn't connect to people. So they all, so everybody just kind of like wandered off and went away and said, Hey, it was really nice to meet you. And then they would like get away from him. So, and he's like, Hmm, I have to be able to learn the ways of this, of these people so that I can talk to them about things. So then he learned everything. He learned everything. He read all the books. He learned every profession, every skill. He learned tinsmithing. He learned basket weaving. He learned cheese making. He learned everything. And then he would come over to someone and say, hi, I'm Padmasambhava, the self-born Buddha. And they're all, okay, and then they're doing whatever work, weaving or something like that. And then he would add some insight about weaving. He's all, actually, you could weave a little bit more efficiently if you do it this way. And they're all, wow, thanks, man. And then he said, also, enlightenment's really cool. And they're all like, now I understand. So it's called the paya, skillful means. He learned, he had the highest dharma, but people couldn't understand it. So he had to learn skills to be able to connect with people. So learning. And he learned everything because his mind was so, was so clear, unblocked, pure. Whatever he focused on, he would immediately learn. So when you meditate, it makes your mind clear. When you have liberation, there's this utter So, the girl was very impressed by that. She was a student.

0:21:34
So she was like, hmm, okay, that sounds useful.

0:21:38
I said, okay, yeah. And then, let's see what else. You learn powers, useful powers. Powers. And then she's like, I don't know, powers, oh my gosh, like Superman, whatever. No, no, no, no, like useful powers. For example, there was the Karma Lama. So some of you know the Karma Lama. He's a Tibetan Buddhist. And he did this thing called the nine year retreat. So he, you know, he went to his Rinpoche and he said, I really, really want to make spiritual progress. And here in the monastery, he was a pretty young monk. He's like, I'm not doing so good. I want to like push it up a notch. So his Rinpoche said, okay, you can do the nine year retreat. So he sat in a cave for nine years repeating a mantra. That was his practice. One mantra, saying it completely over and over and over again for nine years. And then, you know, he did it. And he didn't think it was any big deal. He was just like, yep, I sat there, I said the mantra. And then he's like, eh, and nothing really happened. You know, he's had some good meditations. But it was just, that was his life for nine years. And when he was in his cave, he found a little rock that he liked a lot. So he would hold the rock and he thought it was a special rock. Anyway, so when he left the cave, he took the rock with him. And he was walking back to the ashram. And then another monk says, Oh, are you Karma Lama who went into the cave for nine years? Yeah. So they're talking. And then he sees, the other guy sees the Karma Lama is holding this rock. He goes, oh, it's a cool rock. Can I see it? He goes, sure. So he hands it to him. And the moment that it falls into the other monk's hands, he screams and drops it. And he's like, oh, my God, it's so hot. And the Karma Lama is like, what are you talking about? But he had gained this Siddha power. It's called the Tummo. It's a spiritual heat. And that means that he can make his hands very, very hot. He can also touch things that are very hot. And he can also even, he's pretty cool because he can project heat. So if there's a bucket in front of him, he could boil the water without even touching it. So those are nifty powers, right? You know, you go to a party, you want to show some people some tricks, you know, you go, whoa, I'll boil the tequila! I'll boil the punch bowl! You know, something like that. But there was another manifestation of his power, which was healing. So when he would take that heat and touch someone with it, it would cause healing. So he definitely is a very good healer. I brought lots of students to see him. And what he does is he takes a little metal cylinder thing and he puts it in his mouth and he says a mantra. And it comes out red hot. And then it heals you. So his powers through the development of that tumor, that inner heat, he's able to use that power for healing. And I said, so, you know, that's a useful thing. That's a useful power. It's not useless. And she agreed. She said, okay, yeah. She thought boiling water or just getting really hot was not very interesting, but the fact that that heat would then cause healing. That's something that's obviously useful. So these expressions of enlightenment, they have practical values. You know, there's always the enlightened monk sitting in a cave, just sitting there forever. And that's good. Enlightenment is actually practical. But it's just harder to see. So that's why we have to focus on the most practical applications of liberation. And if getting beyond suffering is not compelling, then maybe learning, or maybe healing. either different expressions of enlightenment. Another is dealing with hardships, dealing with obstacles, the difficulty. Enlightenment is wonderful at helping, overcoming obstacles, dealing with the hardships of life. So one of the things that we may all notice is that life has hardships, difficulties, obstacles, problems. Things get in our way. Things divert us from achieving the goals we wish to achieve. And also there's things in life that just hurt you. It's just painful. You know, enemies, opposition, things come at you. And so, enlightenment is very powerful for overcoming opposition. And a So when he was older, after he was a little boy who learned everything, when he was older, there were, there was a new monastery that was built. And then once the monastery was Then a demon started to torment the monks. The demon would come in to the meditation hall while they were meditating and would actually like start attacking them, like scratching them and pulling them around. And so then they called for Padmasambhava to help. So he came and then he sat with the monks and then eventually the demon came and started attacking and started attacking and Padmasambhava just sat there. They're pulling the monks from their house, crushing the monks. Finally, the demon gets to Pagma Sambhava to scratch him. And then Pagma Sambhava just wrestles with him. As soon as he gets touched, he grabs him and then they start wrestling. Very Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu technique. And so the demon is very angry and wants to cause harm and gets, you know, it gets its energy out of causing harm and getting a reaction out of people. So he's wrestling with Padmasambhava and he's like, ah, this is just a person, a human. I'm just going to just beat him even more. So he got angrier and he tried harder. And Padmasambhava just had really good skill. So he kept on wrestling and then the demon started to notice that from this wrestling he was getting much more power than he would get from just scaring someone, hurting someone. He started to notice that by wrestling with he became more fulfilled and stronger and more powerful. So then the demon kept wrestling and was realizing that he wasn't hurting this guy, and that he couldn't hurt this guy, but the demon through this process decided that it is better to not cause harm to people and to follow whatever this way was, this way of Padmasambhava. And then through this process learned the Dharma to be harmless, the demon learned that there is a more powerful way. You can call it martial arts, martial arts with cognizance. Something powerful in that. And then the demon decided that it would follow that path. And in that decision, in that realization, the demon transformed from a demon to what we call a dharma phala, a protector of the dharma. And then the demon would, instead of attacking the monks, would guard the monks and found that that was the way of Pagna Sambhava's teachings. So this transformed a really horrible enemy into a protector, to a friend. And this is So all the time in Buddhism, especially with the yoga of compassion, we take something that comes at us that's bad and then we transform it into the pathway of awakening. We take something where I can have more balance, where I can have more compassion, where I can be stronger. And we take all of the things, obstacles, troubles, competitors, we take all of these things and we make it into the pathway of awakening. We transform something that is bad into something that is good. So that is a very useful thing. And my student agreed. She is like, yeah, you can. Absolutely. That is the good facts. It is a discipline. It is a power you have to cultivate. But that's, that is definitely one of the main outcomes in the study of the Dharma. And then I think the most important thing is enlightened success. But not just any success. It's enlightened success. So when you tread on the pathway to enlightenment, you start to see little successes. And then ultimately, enlightenment is the greatest success. Enlightenment, letting go of the limited self, dropping attachments to a false view of the world. Eventually, enlightenment itself is the greatest success. subtle. So, you know, all of a sudden you find yourself free of suffering and happy. And those are, you know, kind of the two most simplest ways to say that the result of the mind is there's 10,000 spiritual dimensions of wonder that you could describe. But there's also measures of enlightened success as you go. And when you hit a strong point, a mile marker, a milestone, mile marker, you're like, OK, I actually did get somewhere, you see a success. And you think, okay, there is something to this. I think one of the best ones that we have is success in yoga. When we see success in yoga in our sangha we had a very successful computer programming success, computer software company. It was AppBuddy. And AppBuddy was you know, very, very successful, made millions in sales and then had a very large acquisition. And getting to be a, you know, build the software, you know, is one kind of success. Get to, let's say, a million dollars in sales, that's another kind of success. And then the biggest success of the half-body was the was the big acquisition. And that was a very, very strong marker of success in the Sangha. It was a powerful demonstration that when you do yoga, that it's powerful and it leads to something good. And that's what we call enlightened success. So these are ways of understanding enlightenment that are accessible. They're practical. The things that we can say, yeah, I'd like that. I'd like to be able to learn everything easily. I'd like to be able to have useful powers. I'd like to have enlightened success. So these practical aspects of enlightenment are what we're going to look for. This is what we're going to look for, intend to see in our vision quest. And it's very good for the Western world, I'm telling you. When you have a vision for practical enlightenment, what will happen is you'll actually see something very spiritual, but it then starts to manifest in the physical world in a very practical and successful way. So, it is a spiritual vision quest for these positive, practical practice. Now to do this, first I'm going to give a transmission. This is what we call opening the third eye. Now this is what Krishna did for Arjuna in the battle for Kshetra. He was telling him all this Dharma stuff. And then Krishna's like, Arjuna, he was like, okay, yeah, that sounds all right. He's like, no, this is really big. And he said, look, I'm going to show you my infinite form. I have to open your third eye first. So he opens his third eye, and he goes, okay, now look at me. And then all of a sudden, Krishna looks like this infinite, massive, intense being. So the first part of the vision quest is understanding what you're looking for, what you're seeking. And you're seeking how to see that which is in spirit that will help your life in practical ways. The second part is the opening of the third eye, which is what I will do for you. And then the third part is seed. It is the spiritual practice of seed, which we'll do after the third eye is open. So I'd like you to bring a soft focus to the third eye. We're going to sit for one song. Canyon's Live, maybe the second song. Zion. And just look up here towards me. And if you can't see me, it's okay. Just And let's begin.

0:42:02
Our music device overheated.

0:42:12
All right.

0:42:17
We're going to sit in silence.

0:42:19
Just for a few minutes.

0:42:21
Let's begin. I'm going to do a little bit of a bit of a

0:42:26
bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a I'm going to go ahead and get started. Okay. I'm going to do a little bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get started. Okay. All right, wonderful. Now your third eye is open. So now is a good time for seeing. So what I'm going to have you do is I'm going to have you look to the ocean. The ocean is a wonderful place for seeing. Not just yet.

0:46:48
And you're going to look out to the ocean, focus on the third eye and you're gonna have this feeling like you're casting your awareness out to the horizon. You're going to look at one spot, fix your eyes at one spot in the ocean, out at the horizon or somewhere where you feel it's good. And you feel as though you're casting your attention, your eyes are open, you're looking straight into the ocean. And you just still your mind and you see. Your third eye is open and you will see something. Now, what you see might be, it will be not physical. So if you see like a bird, you know, oh, that's my vision. A lot of times people see spirit through animals, but this is not that. This is direct spiritual awareness. So it's not going to be anything that has to do with the physical. You might start to see things in the subtle physical. You might see little energy, aura, vortex, dimensions. You might actually get visions. Visions of things that you need to do. Things that you want to do. You might hear with your third ear things. Someone is like, get a job, you idiot. You are like, oh, yes, that's it. Let me do that. Yeah, you might, it happens sometimes. You hear. So, and then, and then sometimes when you're sitting out there, it's a feeling in the heart.

0:49:42
Even though you're focusing on the third eye,

0:49:44
there's this amazing feeling in the heart, which means something. And then some of you might say, I didn't see anything, which is also okay, because that's nothingness. No, that's also okay. What we're actually doing is we're actually gazing into the second attention. And the second attention is completely formless. It's something completely out of the description of this world. And that means that if you don't see anything, your second attention is seeing. It's just not that it's perceptual for your thinking mind. And you have to be open to that too. So what we're going to do is we're going to find a spot in the ocean. You might have to walk down a little bit so we can get around the trees. Get to a place where you have a good view of the ocean. Not the bay, the ocean. Let's cast our gaze west. So what we'll do is we'll stand up, we'll find our spot, and then you'll do this seeing, this quest for a vision. Again, for a few minutes. And then what I'd like you to do is make note of what you saw. Even if you didn't think it's useful. I saw a green dot. I saw a green dot. Write it down. Make note of it. Because these are, these are very, very powerful. And it's very important for you to make sure that you, you note down in your first attention what awareness of the second attention you happen to see.

0:51:38
Okay, all right, so let's begin.

0:51:41
We'll get up, we'll walk around to a place where we can see. See for a few minutes, make note of it, and then thank you. All right, did you make note of your seeing?

0:51:51
Good. Great.

0:51:53
I'm going to try to get it in the camera.

0:52:00
I'm going to try to get it in the camera. I'm going to try to get it in the camera. I'm going to try to get it in the camera.

0:52:21
So, sometimes we go around and share things, but these are very personal. So, I think it's important to keep these ones to yourself because what you saw, it's kind of like planting a seed in spirit. It's very delicate, but very powerful because it has the potential to grow to be a very large oak or redwood. So what you saw, keep it to yourself and then just start to observe how you see it incarnate. Go from that vision to reality. That's a powerful thing. I've had as a beginning um several visions and and I saw them actually manifest in my life and that gives you a lot of momentum a lot of personal power the recognition of the meditation and the vision and manifesting in beautiful ways. So I'd like to conclude our song today with meditation. I'd like to sit with you for another three songs. So three songs. Any songs you can. And, yeah, first song on the navel, second on the heart, third on the forehead. I keep saying this because for a long time I was just saying, okay, three songs, three song meditation, or even a six song meditation. And then people are like, let's try this. I'm like, do you practice meditation? In the school? I just want to make sure there's no confusion. All right, so sit up nice and straight.

0:54:50
And we'll sit for three songs.

0:54:52
Thank you.

0:55:20
So, I'm gonna go ahead and get my stuff. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so So, So So, let's get started. so the the the the the the the so Thank you. the the the Thank you. So, the the the the the the the Thank you. so Thank you. That was beautiful.

1:08:12
I'm going to be giving an intermediate empowerment for dreaming. Now if you're a beginner and you have not been to the dreaming teaching, the beginning teaching on dreaming. It talks about all the basics of dreaming. It would be important to do that. If you haven't done that, it would be important to do that before tomorrow. And then if you don't do it, then come anyway. How bad can it be? Push the envelope as we say. Okay, so tomorrow I'll be giving a teaching on dreaming and the intermediate dreaming empowerment. It's really wonderful. And tomorrow I'd like to change things around. Okay, so I want the showdowns to come at four o'clock. This is just too early. Yeah, so now you all know how to get here. So we don't have to meet in the parking lot. So showdowns, I wanna meet you here at 4.30. And then everyone else, the satsang of dreaming, we'll meet here at 630. Okay. So you guys all know how to walk here, right? So here at this spot at 430 and 630? 430 and 630. At this spot, you guys know, you can see where you're parked, right? And then you walked, you know, on this one trail, you might get lost a little bit in those trees but once you get out you go oh it's over here. I'll put a pin on slack. Oh cool. All right. You'll get a pin. All right so just very I'll put a pin on slack. Oh cool. All right. You'll get a pin. All right so just very wonderful to sit with you again in person.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
