0:00:00
Hello everyone. Welcome to Satsang with Sambara. All right, so we're going to begin with meditation. We're going to sit for one song. We're going to focus on the heart chakra. So sit up nice Thank you. So

0:00:21
So so so the the the so you so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, All right. So, today I'd like to talk about karma yoga. So don't worry, we're not going

0:04:38
to be doing any stretches. But karma yoga is different than hapha yoga. They both are yoga. And yoga means union. Union of the self and eternity. So the point of yoga is to come into this connection, the connection of self and nirvana, enlightenment. Now, you might have done a yoga class before and you're like, well, I didn't get any enlightenment out of it, but it could happen. I once had a yoga instructor showing me how to do downward dog. And she said, if you do this properly, you will have a spiritual relevation. And I was like, wow, really? That sounds like quite a stretch. The thing with a yoga instructor is that they better be good, because I had a really bad one once back in New York, and she left me in quite an awkward position. So anyway, the thing about Hatha yoga is it is very focused on the physical, the way that most people do it. I'm sure there's some, you know, masters out there, but even some of the masters, they're just too focused on the physical. Now a lot of people will do Hatha Yoga and they'll come to kind of a peace and a balance and it's good for you. I love it, it's wonderful. There's a lot of wonderful benefits. But yoga means enlightenment. And you don't hear a lot of people going, yeah, I went to my enlightenment class on Wednesday and, you know, did the warrior. Here, we do the warrior, and there is actually enlightenment. Yeah, so compared to karma yogis, hatha yogis are a bunch of posers. Okay, okay. So karma means action. Action when you look at action, you say, I took an action, and then you see the result of the action. So it's action and result of action. So when you understand that you can take positive actions and see good results, you see that that is a way up. That's a way to get higher. Right action, good results. higher empowerment, higher awareness, higher consciousness, with the right actions. So, once I had a student who was an artist, and he's like, oh, my art is so spiritual, but he was miserable in his life. And I said, your art is not spiritual. He's like, but it is because it's my work. And I'm like, it's not spiritual at all. And he meditated with me enough. So he said, maybe I'm going to listen to this guy. He said, okay, what is a way that I can be spiritual in my art? I said, okay, I'll teach you karma yoga. That's the way up. He said, all right, I'm in. I'm like, are you sure? Because if you commit to this, Daniel-san, karate, this is a, yeah, it's like you can either do it or not, but you can't be in between. And he said, I'm gonna do it, 100% what you say. I said, okay, let's do computer programming. And he was like, are you kidding me? Get out of here. How's that going to help my art?" And I'm like, I don't know. But we're talking about spiritual practice and work. And then he was like, oh my gosh. But he went forward with it, which is the first part. And in his art, when he showed me his art, he was doing things where he was like, it was just binding his ego into whatever he felt like doing. And when he started doing computer programming, he had no ego attachment. He was open. He was an open canvas. And then when he learned computer programming, he was learning things in a very structured way and he noticed that it engaged his mind, he developed himself and he got happier and more positive and structured, like all the benefits of computer programming. And then he became a computer programmer and he was making good living. And he was happy. The efforts that he took in learning to be a computer programmer made him happy and strong and wealthy. his art, they binded him into this weird world of the way he wanted to see the world. So Karma Yoga breaks you out of that. It breaks you out of the self, the ego. It goes higher if you take the right actions. And often those actions are actions that you don't want to work. Work isn't fun. You know, I would rather sit on the beach with my friends, drinking Mai Tais, and having a good time. But you have to give yourself to work. So he overcame the dross of self by doing something, by working. And he went higher and he noticed it. He's like, oh, I like doing my art, but this actually gets me higher. This is Karma Yoga in work. Work. A job or any action that you do for your spiritual community, it's work. We work, and when we work properly, when we do Karma Yoga through work, when we work properly, we work past ourselves. This is what you need to do. You need to work past yourself. If you have a job, work past yourself. If you want to get a job, work past yourself. If you're going, if you are going to help your Sangha, your community, work past yourself. This is this is what you got to do. This is what? Karma, yoga is it is it's it's a really high line of experience when you work past yourself You're like. I'm gonna work like crazy Spend you have to spend a lot of energy, but you work past yourself That's what Karma Yoga is. I see a lot of people lighting up because they work past themselves. When you work past yourself, there's a spiritual light that shines in you. When you want to be that artist and you're like, this is my life work, and you're like, that is horrible. We can put that up next to the Mona Lisa. then everything is trouble. If you follow the way of the self, there's trouble, but when you work past the self, it's always a new adventure. An undiscovered country. The other shore, as Buddha would say. Now, when I talk about work, I say, when you work, if you learn to work right, you will have spiritual satisfaction and worldly satisfaction. You will be happy and make money. This is the balance that we have. And this is the thing that we do that is true. Absolutely, 100% documented in this school, that if you do the work right, you're happy and prosperous. So, recently, a few weeks ago, I got an email from a student talking about this perfect And she gave her sister my book, which is Job Yoga. Job Yoga is a book that describes work and spiritual attention and how to bring them together. It is the observations, considerations, mindfulness, awarenesses of how to work and also make that work spiritual work. Make that work, make the thing that you do in your actions, every single thing be the same thing as a Buddhist monk or as a yogi. So she sent her sister who was just in America, corporate America, she sent her sister this book. And she told her sister, Oh, I'm into meditation, this is all good. Her sister's like, alright, whatever. Because her sister lived in Texas. So in Texas, they're like, ah, no man. And she sent this book, and her sister started reading the book. And she said, this makes sense. This is for real. And she started to put it into action. And this is not even a student of mine. This is the sister of a student. So she had a really hard time. She's working at Texaco, an oil company in Texas, where there's mostly white men. She's an African-American woman, and she was a great analyst. And then she was there for eight years, and she saw junior white men get promotions over her. And she was just beat down because of that. And it hurt her spirit. And then she got Job Yoga book. And she read it and she said, this makes sense. I need to look at things differently. I need to develop myself through these observations and these awarenesses of this practice. And then she did it. And when she did it, she stopped feeling like a victim. She opened up her power. And then after she read the book, six months later, she got a promotion. And also, she was happy. She had satisfaction Karma yoga it actually makes you happy and It gives you satisfaction

0:18:44
This is the thing that does it brings up

0:18:47
The physical and the spiritual We call it the first attention and the second attention the seen world and the unseen world There's a part of your experience of work. That means that you pay the right attention to your work and it comes up. Your work gets better. That's what we do here. If your work is going down, you're not in my school. My school, everyone goes up. And also with your happiness and satisfaction with work. It goes up You see it it goes up up up up up up And

0:19:45
So we do this together This is how we work we go up

0:19:50
This is what karma? Yoga is it's this focus on the physical, where things get better financially and in every way, in your job and everything. And also, you start to smile more, you're happier. This is Karma Yoga. I have to point out an example in our school. One of our most, successful software company was AppBuddy. It was a software company on the Salesforce platform and AppBuddy was really successful in yoga. Now AppBuddy started with a good idea and then it evolved into an understanding of our customers have a lot of suffering in their lives because of what the Salesforce platform offers them. Now, the Salesforce platform is a really powerful thing that everyone goes into, but then it's hard to use. And then we say, if it's hard to use, how do we make it easier for them to use? And make it so that they don't have so much stress in their lives when they're working. And so, honestly, App Buddy had compassion and they grew in compassion. And the more that they worked, the more love that they had, the more compassion that they had. And when it got harder and more difficult, and they had competitors that were 10, no, not 10, 80 times more... Let's see, there's this one time where they had a competitor that came out of nowhere and had, they were like, oh, let's copy them and destroy them. And that competitor got $70 million in venture capital. So when that happened, we're like, oh my gosh, we're this tiny little company making $10 million a year, and they're gonna crush us, but they didn't. Yeah, I agree. Thanks, Katju, I agree. So, the reason why is because facing all this opposition, they always came together. And facing all this hardship, they had more love, more love for each other gave them a bigger power to overcome all of the hardships and difficulties. Thanks Kat. Thank you Kat. That's a Neo. connection. So it's like, oh, it's like the, what are those guys called, the Spartans? They can go against the 300. They can go against the giant army, and there's only a little bit of them, but they tighten up, they get together. But they did that in their heart, and they were able to face greater odds, and so many times. So, this is what we have to do. And then also, they would see the problems of their customers, and then they would say, we gotta do a new feature, we gotta do more, we have to help them. And they did, and that's how they became successful and a very successful Silicon Valley company because they had love that brought them together in the hardships, and they had compassion for their customers that made them want to do more.

0:24:14
That is the balance.

0:24:16
When you balance first attention and second attention, the physical and the spiritual, when you put that together in a business, you make magic. There's a lot of businesses that just make money. But that's not what we're into. I mean, we want to make money, but we also, the most important thing that we do is we get spirit, enlightenment out of what we do and work. And for you, it might just be getting a job. And for some of you, it might be building a business. This is very, very important. Now, Karma Yoga is essential. So, pardon me. So, Karma Yoga is essential. You know, I've met so many people who've been meditating for a long time. I've been meditating for a long time, so I've met them. And also, you know, Buddhist monks and yogis who are like, Oh, yeah, I've been meditating for 20, 30 years. And I look at them and I'm like, it looks like you've been meditating on the same state of mind for one year. If you don't do yoga, you don't change. Yoga is the most essential practice. If you want to get beyond introduction meditation, if you want to get beyond beginning meditation, you could have 40 years of meditation in the beginning meditation stage. And you can have interesting experiences. You can be a white belt forever. One of the enlightened teachers in our school, Shiva, says, I am a seventh degree white belt. Means he went to white belt, he did white belt karate and taekwondo and judo forever. And that's what most spiritual people do. They go, wow, I started meditation and I got to this level and then I just keep trying to figure out things at that level. But, to break through the karma of the self, you've got to do yoga. Otherwise, you will forever be that seventh degree white belt. And he can't tell you, I've seen, I mean, I don't know, so many Buddhist monks who are like, I've been meditating for 20, 30 years. And I'm like, your meditation is year one meditation, which is good for year one, but you should grow up. They don't grow up because they don't do yoga. They do thinking, they do philosophy. They get into this whole world of, I call it self. Karma yoga breaks you beyond that. And if you want to get out of introduction, beginning, spirituality, then you have to do Karma Yoga. If you want to stay in introduction Buddhism, then you don't have to do yoga. You can ponder it. Oh, that's an interesting idea, but it is the real deal. And yeah, when I sit there with Buddhist monks or yogis who are in a certain, you know, they haven't done yoga, they usually stay down at that level. It's very unusual for someone to get to a high state unless they do yoga or if they've been enlightened in a lot of past lives or something like that. So do yoga. You know there's something in work that is so much greater than your mind. Most spiritual people just sit around in their mind going, hmm, spiritual thought, hmm, spiritual meditation, hmm, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and I call that the spiritual ego. But when you work, you're interfacing with truth. I could tell some really high yogi, oh yeah, well, fix the carburetor on my car. Wait, carburetors don't exist anymore. Fix the fuel injection on my car." And they'll say, I don't know what that is. I'll say, figure it out and fix it. And a yogi, an enlightened person, a spiritual person, can direct their mind to something, focus on it, do it, and Yogis are not just, I'll sit around in a cave, I'll sit around in an ashram. That's a retreat. But a true yogi comes into the world and can do anything that they focus their mind on. In spirituality we're all, well, being spiritual is just running away from life, being all spiritual,

0:29:55
and getting away.

0:29:56
No, it's dealing with life, it's coming to life. It is saying, what is the main thing? What do I gotta do? Anything that I have to do, I'll do, I'll be present for. I will bring my enlightenment to that. So, a lot of spiritual people have this thing where they back off, they wanna run away. Running away is not spiritual. We have to engage with life. Knowing life is engaging with life. And then there's this thing that things are painful, so I don't want to engage because it's hard. You need to be able to deal with the pain and the hardships and be victorious. That's yoga. Everybody else just wants to It's very important. When you do yoga, it burns off karma. This is a very simple way of talking, but it's a powerful way. When you do yoga, everything that you do burns off karma. When your karma is gone, you're enlightened. And the example that I have is Tibet's great yogi, Milarepa. Milarepa had a lot of bad karma and then he did a lot of work to burn off that karma. And that's what his guru, Marpa, kept telling him. He's like, you've got to burn off some karma, so do this. And he's like, oh, okay. That's a good idea, but I, oh man, but it's a lot of work. So, Milarepa, just to give you a short story, him and his mother suffered tremendously because of family matters. And then his mother knew that he was kind of special, so she sent him to study with a sorcerer and said, learn the magic to kill our enemies. And he's like, okay, my mom's telling me to do this, I'm very young. So he learned the magic and he was special. So he came back and he's all, enemies, poof! And then they died. And then he felt horrible. He was like, wait a minute. I did this because I was so concerned for my mom's happiness and she told me what to do when I was young. So I listened to my mom. But after using magic to kill my enemies, I feel horrible. So then he found his way to his guru, Marpa. He's like, I need to somehow get rid of this pain. And Marpa is an enlightened teacher, says, okay, I know what to do. He's like, build a tower over here. Build a tower. Stones. And he's like, I don't know how to build a tower. Figure and be great, make sure that tower doesn't fall down. So he spent all this time, all this energy building towers. And Marpa said, this is burning off karma. He got this back pain, all this, it was the hardest thing, it was so difficult. And Marpa was like, this is what you have to do to burn off karma. And then he got to a certain point of work where he was just building towers with stones. He became an expert mason by practicing. And then Marpa said, okay, now you've burned off enough karma, now sit in meditation. And then Milarepa became this spiritual enlightened master that all Tibetans of every different group appreciates, that is really Tibet's great yogi. So, you burn off karma through the works. It's very important. You know, when you're, when you, every thought that you have, every intention that you take in it in a moment everything that you do to Do some karma yoga Everything that you do it cleans your karma It it it takes away from the obscuration It opens the veil. I think it's like the windshield wiper. Every thought, every action, every intention, you might have this like dirty windshield. Every thought cleans it a little bit. Now, if you have a really dirty windshield, it takes a lot to clean it. So every thought cleans it a little bit more. So every thought, every intention, every focus, which is selfless towards karma yoga, is the way to get you higher. It's the way to get you brighter. It's the way to get you to the next level All right, so we're going to sit This is going to be the transmission of Karma yoga that which gets you higher that which is the intention of Work for spirituality. So we're going to sit for one song. This is going to be Third Eye. And let's begin.

0:36:37
You so so so So So transmission is a very powerful thing. It gets to the essential aspect of Karma Yoga.

0:37:21
In transmission, it burns off your karma. And it shows you how to do it and the way to go. So this is very good. How do you, it's like holy water. How do you make holy water? You burn the hell out of it. So transmission is like that fire that boiled water and makes it, I don't think you boil holy water. Anyway, it's like, you know, when we're here in Hawaii and we're doing yoga, it's always hot yoga. Believe me, the people in the room know that. is, it's a discipline of impeccability and selflessness, ultimately. And impeccability means that you always bring your best. You always try your hardest. You always give it a hundred and ten percent. 10% you always bring your best to your work you but you can't be in a bad mood you can't be tired every if you're ignited in yoga you're a hundred percent every time you always bring your your best you might have you ever had that experience I don't know some people haven't some people have been like oh I don't know I feel weird today move a little you're caught in yourself and your head, but some of you are lucky enough to have gotten into a job or something where you're like, I have to try. I have to bring my best. And if you've ever experienced that, that is impeccability. You might've been a junior grocery packer, but you were like, this is the job I have. I really am gonna do the best. I want to do this. And if that's the case, that's impeccability. And if you keep on going with that same intent and that same attention, you can go way up in your career. But bring your best care to your work and that's impeccability and then if you do that you get to the next level and Then you bring it more there now what most people do is they bring some good attention in Impeccability to their work and then they get bored of it and they don't want to do it anymore They're tired of being impeccable so they don't go higher. Some people go really high and they make a lot of money and then they get stabilized there. And then we go into selflessness. Selflessness is the other aspect. You've got to really bring your best. And also you have to keep refining that good. This is the Japanese business word, kaizen. This comes from Toyota. Toyota manufacturing. Kaizen. Constant improvement.

0:44:25
Constant improvement. So that's also impeccability. One, you gotta care, and you gotta get to

0:44:28
that level of care, and then you constantly improve. You never stop improving. Enlightenment goes on and on. It never ends. Enlightenment is not a final stage. So, enlightened people Enlightened people constantly Kaizen themselves. Even Buddha, his whole life after liberation was Kaizen, Kaizen, Kaizen. Refinement. That's impeccability. To be enlightened is impeccable. But then once you're enlightened, you have to refine yourself even more. Get to the next level. That's Kaizen. We do that in yoga. We do that in spirit, we become enlightened, and then we bring our yoga up to that enlightened level, and that brings us higher. do good physical work, your meditation gets better. When your meditation gets better, your physical work gets better. That's the balance. And then we get to selflessness. And selflessness is letting go of the self to do the work. So I had the artist who committed to, I want to learn spiritual work Who said what you want me to do computer programming now, and he he did it and he He saw for himself that he became happy and bright and had spiritual awareness Because he did the work That's selfless giving yourself to the work. I remember I was karate, martial arts, so it was kung fu. I was a kung fu and TV master. I was really into watching TV and doing kung fu. I would do kung fu while watching TV. I'm not kidding.

0:46:42
But I was really, you know,

0:46:43
like I was trapped in these ways. And then my spiritual mentor told me, start doing things to help out your spiritual community. Start putting up posters and things like that. And I was like, okay. So then I would spend hours serving my spiritual community. Because I really liked meditation and the spiritual mystical things that I was learning But I would normally spend my time doing whatever the heck I I was in here, which was kung fu and watching TV and Then I cut those things out and I started doing the work for my spiritual community. That was my first step in yoga and It was hard it's hard to go away from you know watching Star Trek the next generation. I'm like, I've got to do this, but oh, my TV, oh. It's funny, but it's true. So it was hard to let go of the things I wanted to do and the things that I knew were special and powerful and helpful. I was really focused on helping my spiritual community. And then I felt happier, more balanced, more energy. So selflessness is giving yourself to the work. Another important thing in understanding selflessness is that it's not toil.

0:48:13
It is not toil.

0:48:14
If it is arduous toil and you're like, oh my gosh, it's so hard, then you haven't figured it out. Selflessness gets into one of Buddha's teachings called right effort. So when you're a yogi, if you're just fighting and toiling, well, I guess you're working through some karma. But the highest aspect of karma yoga is right effort. It's where you direct your effort effortlessly. You start to see that when you direct yourself properly, things just happen automatically. It's not that you're sitting there going, I need to break down a wall. It's that you need to say, there is no wall. And you can flow through things. So for all the yogis, the veteran yogis who are like, oh, it's so, you know, work so hard and yoga so hard. Imagine that it's not hard. You need to learn right effort. You need to do yoga with right effort. So this means that you let go of struggle and see a more powerful way. We see this in Tai Chi. So when I teach my students Tai Chi, if I say, you know, push this person, they'll say, there's a person there. We've got to push that person. And then they tense up. And then they have weak power. But when you can be flowing with Tai Chi and you say, oh, I don't care if there's a person there or what, you can relax and have the flow of energy, which is Karma Yoga, the work that you do isn't stress. It's not stress. If you have stress in yoga, you don't have right effort. You have self. You need to get to right effort. Which is that everything that you do flows. You love it, it's wonderful. I like Hatha Yoga. It's beautiful. It gives you this inner peace and balance. My teacher did Hatha Yoga. I love Hatha Yoga. It's really good. You know, there's a reflection that you get from Karma Yoga. Life reflects your mind and mind reflects your life. I remember, I was in a Zen monastery in Kyoto, and we had this practice called cleaning. Oh wait, no, it's called practical Zen, and that was karma yoga. So in Zen, we would sit around and meditate and stuff like that, but then we had this practice called practical Zen, and that meant pretty much cleaning up, tending to the garden, sweeping. And what I did was I went out and I would do, you know, those stone gardens, they rake the stone gardens into perfection. And so what I did was I went out to the garden, it was kind of funky. I said, oh, this is not right. Whose mind did this? And I went there, and I went into Samadhi, a very high state of spiritual union, and I worked from that. And then when I was done, the monks were like, whoa, that's a really good stone garden. I'm like, yeah. It's a reflection of my Samadhi. Make your work a reflection of your Buddha nature, your enlightened mind, and then see your enlightened mind and then we're going to talk about the most obvious thing, which is past lives. So this time of year we always do a past life seeing where we sit and we focus to see our past lives. And seeing past lives is sometimes you get an image, sometimes you get a movie, sometimes you hear things, sometimes you feel things, or sometimes you don't know nothing. You're like, huh? But we're not just going for an image or a memory or something. When we do past life seeings, the thing that we direct our attention to is past life awareness. What did I know in that lifetime? Because in other lifetimes you might have been very wise, very powerful. You figured something out and we need to connect to those lifetimes. We need to connect to them so that we are our self. How am I not myself? You don't remember yourself. Know This is what we do in our past life scenes. Now, I want to talk about something specific. Here we're talking about power. Power. So, in past lives you've developed powers. You've done some great things. You've been strong. You've developed skill sets and abilities from lifetime to lifetime to lifetime. And a great thing to do is to bring those back, those powers and abilities. When you bring those back, it strengthens you. It's a tool chest of skill sets. And if you used to have a wrench and now you have a hammer and a screwdriver, bring back that wrench. It's useful. This is what we do with past life memory. We bring back attention and power from past lives into our attention in this life, so that we can be all that we have been. This is what we do in mysticism. It's a very important thing, because if in one lifetime you had a tool, you had a power that you can access now, bring in here, and fix a carburetor, a fuel injection." That's a joke. Mechanics, Zen and the art of auto, motorcycle maintenance. And this is something we want to bring all of our powers and awarenesses from past lives, anything that we've ever learned, we want to bring that back so that we can be the highest that we can be. We can be who we are and then go up from there. So every October, October is a very special time, you know, we get towards Halloween and the Day of the Dead, the veil between the worlds is very thin at that time and it's close to death and that's why we look at our past lives during these times. This time we're looking back for power. I remember one time we looked back for compassion. That was so beautiful. But now we're looking for power. We are looking for where were we powerful? We had places, we learned amazing things, we're really strong, we're, like you had lifetimes where you were like, maybe a martial artist or a healer or a monkey, and you were like 100%. So that's what we wanna draw back. We wanna draw back power, bring it up, get our spirit back. Now, things are so different. You're like, well, the way that I look at things is everything's like the life that I'm in right now. But no, things change like dramatically from lifetime to lifetime. In a certain lifetime, if I threw you right now into a different, completely different karmic experience, what would you do? What would your spirit do? You would have to face that thing. And actually I do this to you guys. But I'm pretty easy going about it. But what if I threw, I took a natural born Swedish person right now. Swedes are pretty like, oh, pretty chill, really nice. And if I threw you back a thousand years, you're like, I'm a Viking, motherfucker. Oh, sorry.

0:59:19
No, really.

0:59:21
Do you see how there's a big change? The Swedish people right now are just so... I wish America would be more like Sweden. Wait a minute. That's politically incorrect? Okay, good. I wish America was more like Sweden a thousand years ago. Is that also? Okay.

0:59:48
We leveled it out.

0:59:51
All right.

0:59:54
So, so things change The Swedes now pretty cool back then destroy Europe That political okay a little bit, okay But that's the thing it's like things change and they you know when I talk about things I'm like talking on different levels But it's true. So we want to know not where we're at, but we wanna know where we're from. Not where we're at in terms of our karma, karma Americans were kind of chilling out, but in past lives we might have been in extreme situations where it brought other things out of us, where we developed power and intention. So we want to get back to the places where we had power. Sometimes we had power sitting in the Himalayan mountains in a cave, meditating. That's power too. And now you're like, now I'm in a city working. And you're like, how can I be as powerful as that spiritual master that I was in the ashram, in the cave, in the hermitage? You can. You have to open your mind to it and bring it back. So we're looking for the way to come back to your highest spiritual awarenesses. And they might be crazy, because you might have had a horrible life, always in pain and always in struggle and difficulty, just barely to stay alive. And in this life, you're like, oh no, I lived really good because you made some good karma, but you learned something that's super powerful in that lifetime.

1:02:10
So whatever that lifetime was,

1:02:13
where it might've been the most difficult struggle, but you got a power that maybe kicked off your good karma to get to here. We want to know the hard times and the good times, we're gonna bring it together, where we put this together, where we see power. Power comes from, oh man, a lot of conflict and war. I've also been, it's like half war, half Buddhist. And I think it might be the same for you. A lot of your personal power might come from, a lot of your disciplines might come from trouble, difficulty, hardship, and then spirit as well. So we don't discount the warrior past lives and the horrible hardships that, I mean, the past 6,000 years at least. Difficulty. And then also, so we gain power from that. And what do we gain from that? By dealing with life and death, you actually gain power. And then there's also times where you're meditating in the Himalayan peaks or by the Ganga and you gain power there. So I want you to be open to power.

1:03:56
We're going to do a meditation on the third eye where we are going to see past lives.

1:04:01
Now here's the most important thing. You don't have to believe in reincarnation. Reincarnation is an idea. Buddha didn't really support that idea either. But he talked about it himself. So with reincarnation, you have to recognize reincarnation in your mind right now. So nothing exists. Past lives don't exist. your karma, your potential. You can role-play with yourself. This is a big thing. You can say, I don't believe in reincarnation at all, but if I had a past life I would have been the queen of Egypt or whatever. And then you can make an awareness and a connection of that. So you don't have to believe the cosmology of reincarnation to meditate on reincarnation, to get the benefits of reincarnation. Reincarnation can be role-playing. Reincarnation is a reflection of your own mind. It's thinking, hmm, what if I was Caesar? How would I think through that? What would I experience through that? There's certain karmas of your mind that you will associate with. You don't have to believe in this cosmology at all. It's just that you kind of are open to it, and you see what kind of happens from it. So I'm not trying to tell you that reincarnation is real because Buddha was kind of half and half on that too. But there is a way of understanding your mind by opening your mind and opening yourself to maybe I was powerful. This is an exercise. Maybe I was powerful, maybe I was enlightened, maybe I did all these great things, maybe I was, you know, in a cave, in an ashram, I did spiritual things, powerful things. And see what opens in your mind. See what happens. Just let it go. I know I say reincarnation, some people go, ah, I hate you. And I'm like, well. I'd say in this reflection, we're going to focus on the third eye and forget the idea of reincarnation and just see what happens. We are just going to sit. We're going to focus. We're just going to focus on the third eye. You don't have to have a thought. You don't have to worry. You don't have to try. Just be. But this is a seeing exercise. It is a seeing that is deeper than thought or mental reflection. And in this seeing, power in our past lives. Places where we had power and discipline. You might get a vision of something, you might get a feeling of something, you might get nothing, which is okay too, which is good. Nothing's even better. It's very Zen. Yeah, but we don't want to get caught up in dreams and visions. We don't want to think about reincarnation as a thing or not a thing. Doesn't have to be a thing at all. It's your own mind. So if you sit in this time and you are open and still, you can get a feeling. And if you get a feeling, just trust that feeling. That's a reflection of your own mind. It is beyond reincarnation. It's beyond if reincarnation is or if it isn't. Just by sitting in this reflection of, we can call it a reflection of the root of our power. If you say root of your power, we don't have to say reincarnation. So reincarnation is a whole big idea, cosmology, but I want to get to the root of your power. And it might come in the most essential way, might have a lot of dreams and visions, because show you those things, but let's just get to the root of your power, or the roots of your power. Like many different ways that a redwood tree spreads its roots. We're not a carrot, we're a redwood tree. So, you don't have to believe in this. Believe in yourself and then experience it. Because I'm going to open the dimensions. All right, so we're going to sit for one song on the third eye. Let's begin.

1:09:54
You So, So So so so so So so so so so You're my hero Oh, yeah so So So you You have to be kind of open to what you saw or what you feel. Thinking too much definitely messes it up. But you have to say, what was in that experience?

1:20:04
And then what you have to do is for October 31st, get a costume. So here's what we do as a part of first attention. We have a vision and a feeling. This meditation, a vision and a feeling, beyond thoughts, beyond ideas, what did I feel? And then we start to put together what is the feeling or seeing of this meditation, and then we put it into a costume for the 31st. And our intention was to see past lives of power, or an aspect of the mind that you were separated from that brings you power. So that's the intention. We bring that together into the tonal of a costume. And then in Bodewood there's a costume party, in Hawaii there's a costume party. And then we can dial in Germany and Austria. And Iceland, you should have a costume party. So in India, you should have a costume party. So let's do costume parties. And we just, whatever we saw, we put it together into a costume. And you might not know it completely, but this is a really important exercise to bring this seeing into a costume. And we get together and we share that. And I think what we'll do is we'll also take pictures about the costumes all around the world and share them with each other. I think it'll be really beautiful. So, this is our exercise, our spiritual exercise from vision and seeing to a costume on the 31st. And then we'll share with each other. We'll see pictures from Hungary, pictures from India, pictures from Hawaii, pictures from California. So we'll just share it, and I think it'll be very beautiful. You know, when we do this, it's powerful. I remember, I think my favorite one was we did this seeing, and then we went to the Fairmont Hotel in San Francisco, this really high-end hotel where we had satsang. And it was Halloween, so we can dress up in costumes and people don't think we're too weird. And then I walked in, I walked in with Ajna, and Ajna was like one of the three musketeers. Totally awesome costume, big hat, big sword, all that stuff. And then I was with Raja, and Raja was this Native American chief with the big headdress and everything. And then I was an Indian guru, like usual. And I had the turban and everything. But our costumes were super powerful, awesome costumes. And the three of us walked in to the Fairmont lobby, and everyone's all, wow.

1:23:41
Yeah, so when you get a good costume,

1:23:42
it has a lot of impact. And for us, the three of us walking in, that was my favorite walk in ever. It was just like, this is so cool, right? It was so fun. It was the coolest thing. So do a good costume. When you do a good costume, When you do a good costume, it actually, it's really changing your karma, really getting you back to those powers in your mind.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
