0:00:00
Good morning everyone.

0:00:04
All right, so we're going to begin with meditation. One song on the third octave. Sit up nice and straight and let's begin.

0:00:15
the the the the the the the the you So So So you All right. Thank you for joining me for this Shodan teaching. And Bodhisattvas are also invited to hang out.

0:04:08
This is really about Shodons, and it's because the Shodons have the advanced teachings, and the Shodons are ready for an amazing opportunity. So the advanced teachings begin with this thing we call the Kala Chakra empowerment. And for Bodhisattvas, it's just this magical thing in our school. And the Tibetan Buddhists talk about the Kala Chakra and they have all these Kalachakra. The Dalai Lama gives this thing called the Kalachakra initiation every year. So the Kalachakra is a big thing in Tibetan Buddhism. However, it's absolutely lost to the Tibetan Buddhists. Like, what the Kalachakra is, is amazing, and there's no one in the Tibetan Buddhist community at all anymore who has the light from that powerful teaching. So if you Google Kalachakra, or if you read books about the Kalachakra, you will know nothing about the Kala Chakra. And then if you ask advanced students about the Kala Chakra, then that's where it gets dangerous, because they know something of the Kala Chakra. But if you haven't gone through the advanced teachings, the information that they would give you would just be deceiving. You wouldn't understand it. So, it only comes from the transmission. Even when I had the transmission for my teacher, he invited some students who hadn't been with him for 20 years. So it's like there was a group of people who he was working with directly and then there was a group of people like Shiva. He kicked Shiva out a long time ago. But then he invited Shiva to this final enlightened teaching. And so Shiva showed up. So there some students who just weren't around for a long time and a few came back. But at that teaching some other students who heard about it, who hadn't been around for a while, but they weren't invited, they showed up. And so, Brahma gave this teaching, this enlightened, advanced teaching and transmission, this empowerment. They call it chakra empowerment. And he said, I know that there's some of you who, because you really, really felt this is powerful, felt it's special, you showed up, even though you weren't invited. said, all of these teachings and this empowerment won't work for you. Just sorry, I'm going to transmit the power, the empowerment to the people who are ready for it. So it is a very, very, very, very advanced thing. And just because you hear the words and you say, okay, so that's what it is, without the real transmission, then all you have is a concept, an idea. So I used to tell my students, before they were advanced students, I'm like, if Shiva or Agni Kala mentions the word Kala Chakra, close your ears, don't listen. Because it doesn't help you. All it does is create ideas, concepts, and that hinders you. Because the Kala Chakra is a real thing, and if you have ideas about what it is, because you hear commentaries from people, then it's not going to help you. It will only hinder you. So the Kala Chakra is really fresh. And for the advanced students, it's also fresh. Even though they know what it is, and they could say some things about it, and they can talk about their experience, it's still unfolding in a very profound way. So for Bodhans, Bodhans, you guys are doing a good job and I want you to hear advanced teachings. So Rama, when he would teach us, very early on, even year one of accepting us as students, he's like, you might be beginners, but I'm teaching you advanced Buddhism. So he always said, I'm teaching advanced spirituality. Even though you're a beginner, you might be new, but what you're learning is advanced. So you're like, I'm new to meditation, and then you're learning advanced meditation. So everything is advanced. Your first introduction to meditation, where you walked into a classroom with Raja or Chidananda, that was advanced. Everything about this is advanced. Advanced means that there's real enlightenment. You might be a beginner, but this is real enlightenment. So, we have this thing called beginning, intermediate, advance, and that's a whole way. So don't get curious about the Kalachakra. Let it play in your second attention as a koan. Because if you start to try to conceptualize it, you kill it. So please don't do that. And that's a big thing with spirituality. You have to know, and you have to know, and you have to figure it out, and you have to know. Once you know, it's dead. You're like, I need to figure it out, I need to know what's going on, I have to come up with everything, my concepts and all this stuff. You stamp out the light. So, you don't have to know. In fact, it's better not to know. And in the advanced teachings, all the students will tell you. They don't know. They're doing really well, but they don't know. They're having high magical experiences after receiving the advanced teachings, but they don't know. And they think, maybe it's not the right thing, or maybe I'm not doing it perfectly.

0:13:20
And they don't know.

0:13:22
And that's perfect. So, when was it when I gave the Kala Chakra empowerment in the Anza Burrito? Almost three years ago. How long?

0:13:41
Almost three years ago.

0:13:42
Almost two?

0:13:43
No, the Solstice was two.

0:13:44
Two. Oh, okay. So next time the Solstice is going to be two years.

0:13:50
Yes.

0:13:51
Okay, well then I think it's time to push it up. So enlightenment in the advanced teachings takes an average of three years. But it can happen faster. You know, Leela did it faster. S.T.1 Ananda did it faster. And then there's also an enlightened student who lives on the big island. His name is Ishwara. He lives one hour and 23 minutes from Anangaloa. And he did it faster. So, this is a great thing. And when we moved to Hawaii in 2002, it was so great. And we just, we were in Volcano National Park, out in the middle of nowhere, because if you come here and you're driving through, the place that we go to meditate very often, down by the ocean, that's just like this big drive. There's another drive that doesn't go into the ocean. There's a road into the middle I ran into Ishwara and he's really great. And you know, his enlightenment is very, very, very, very, very strong with compassion. So his teachings and what he does is all about the highest compassion. Bodhisitta, advanced bodhisitta. It's so amazing, bodhisitta. Her dharma of bodhicitta was amazing. She said, This is advanced bodhicitta, and this is good for advanced students, students for enlightenment and Bodhams. I know we call you a Bodham, but you can be advanced. And even you students can be advanced. Her teaching was this really amazing teaching that went from my four gates of Dorisita to a fifth gate. metaphysical blocks that grow through and then the fourth is all of the beings in the universe I would like to take their suffering and give them life they're enlightened. That was the fourth gate. Leela shared the fifth gate. And the fifth gate is a discrimination, discernment, seeing what is true. Coming from a place of compassion and also a place of unity. So when Leela gave her teaching, we called it the Mahamudra, outstanding, profound power that she exhibited. She shared a way, a highway, a very profound life and truth and being. She shared a way that was even more than, I want to help everyone in the universe. She shared a way that was the seeing of connection, the seeing of unity. So, when we go through the practices of compassion, compassion for myself, compassion for someone who is my mother, my family, compassion for a group. You start to build these ideas of compassion, and they are like katas, they're forms of compassion. Like, compassion for myself is a big thing. Compassion for other people. Some of you advanced students need to have a little bit more compassion for the group. A big deal that happens in the advanced teachings is that you start to become narrowly focused on yourselves. My meditation, my Samadhi, my enlightenment. And that's really cute. But come on. That's a trap. Don't forget everyone else. Oh, but I know my meditation is... And I'm like, that's a little to me. That's a small sound. That's a little music. And I'm like, can you do better than that? Advanced students, if you're complaining about, well,

0:21:30
I don't like this.

0:21:32
It's very advanced of you, which I respect. But is that it? Are you serious? There's a bigger story. So, alright, but we have to get real. I've got a lot to talk about about these things, but I have to move on because we have amazing teaching coming up with a great yogi. And was a teaching of life, of enlightenment. She, because of coming to teach us, she brought together the teachings that she was given, brought it together, and she had an enlightened moment, an epiphany, a Selvakoppa enlightenment. I mean like, amazing, a Satori. And she shared that with us, and she did it because she cared to teach us. It's amazing. She was, that's a selflessness. Advanced students, simply put, we've moved our spiritual center to Hawaii, and we're going to build a meditation hall. And advanced students, showdowns, I would like you to support the building of the meditation hall. And I have a structure that's tied to a teaching. The first intention of the structure is we need to build this place. And a barn, we're going to build a barn in Hawaii, a good barn, because it's going to be a meditation barn. It's going to be an enlightenment barn. And this barn costs way more than you would expect to do the work on the land with the bulldozers, the space that we've identified is gorgeous. If you haven't been here yet, then you'll be here at some time. But the place is gorgeous. It's the best, perfect, most excellent place. And that's where we will create a meditation hall. There's nothing there. And we're going to create a meditation hall, which is the meditation hall of our sangha. But it was, we had a meditation yurt. We had many magical teachings in the yurt. It was great and wonderful and beautiful. Now we're making a hall, an excellent, high-tone-out, beautiful meditation hall, fitting. A yurt was cute. Birdie Woods had a lot of cuteness, and we upgraded the cuteness. Here we're working at a higher tonal because to advance students you've developed yourselves to be able to make a higher tonal. a dozen of my original yogis. And it's growing. She is a leader. And making Bodhiwood's great again. We have those hats. But But Ananda Loa is great. You don't have to make it great again, it's already great. So showdowns and that is to pay money to build this beautiful place. It's not gonna be in Europe. You know we did that and that's cute but we're gonna build a 2,500 square foot meditation hall here that you can come to every day if you live here, or you can come to twice a year on solstices, or any way you want to do it. But I'm tying the development and building of this place So, only in advanced students. But you cannot participate in this. This is only for advanced students, the struggles, people who have gotten the teachings. participate in this very involved investment in the meditation center, the meditation hall. Not the house. The people in the house are paying for the house. Not the land. Everybody paid for the meditation hall. It costs a lot to make good meditation. So if you participate So, I want shurams, everyone who's gotten the advanced teachings, the Kalachakra empowerment, to develop our primary place of power. The amount is fifteen thousand dollars. That sounds like a lot, but it's not a lot.

0:29:41
And

0:29:43
it's a lot, but if we all do it, we build something beautiful. This is our spiritual temple. And that is what I would ask of advanced students to support their spiritual community. Now I also tie it to this. If you are going to support your spiritual community at this late stage in the game, you've been working on the advanced practices and now we have a Nandaloa. Well, if you're going to do this, I'm going to give you, I call it the final teaching. I love many stories of the Buddha. Many stories of the Buddha, Buddha said, hey, you know, stop being an asshole. Stop doing this wrong thing. Stop this. Stop the self. And so this teaching, for that commitment for only advanced students, I'm going to give the final Kala Chakra teaching. You have all the transmissions. But the highest teachings of the Kali-chakra are teachings of jnana, yoga, discrimination. You have all the environments for enlightenment. Advanced students who have all the environments. And I will teach you the discrimination. The highest teachings of the Kalachakra, the environments are so important to set you off, to grow you. But what makes the enlightenment at the end, what Kundalini helped me with and what I was able to help Leela with, it's that final moment of what is your karma. It confronts you. Push it in your face so that you can say,

0:33:21
No, not this. Not this.

0:33:26
Not this karma. Not this self. So, you know, neti neti.

0:33:29
Not this, not this.

0:33:30
And that was, it's a very powerful, very powerful,

0:33:32
very powerful, very powerful,

0:33:34
very powerful,

0:33:35
very powerful,

0:33:36
very powerful,

0:33:37
very powerful,

0:33:38
very powerful,

0:33:39
very powerful,

0:33:40
very powerful, Neti neti, not this not this. And that was, this is a very classic Yama Yola discrimination. There's so much power in the Kala Chakra. And all that it comes up to is this one place where you say, no self. And I sat there one-on-one with Lila, who had gotten the call of chakra empowerment. She got all the empowerments. And when it came to that point of not this, not this, that teaching was where she went into Nirvana. So I'm going to give that teaching. And I know a lot more watching you guys. And there's going to be enlightenment in this teaching. So the Buddha has these many stories of, well, I taught this and taught this and taught this. And one of the most amazing, radical things, if you read the Middle East discourses, is in a teaching that Buddha gave, it's solid, makes sense to every muggle who couldn't read it, but it made someone enlightened. In so many of his teachings he taught Something that was going on at the time and people became enlightened. Monks usually sometimes lay people But he was one of the best Walked up got enlightened. The monks were like... So enlightenment can happen everywhere. It's in you already. Enlightenment is within you.

0:35:46
And what you have to realize is that...

0:35:49
Let go of this self. This self-defense and trouble with others. Oh yeah, let it be a big washing machine. Stop it.

0:36:17
Stop the fight.

0:36:18
My main message for this world and this time is chill out. If you can chill out, you can be proud. So, show of hands, $15,000 to support the building of our spiritual temple. And that's probably it for this lifetime. I'm not going to like say, Oh, let's make another spiritual temple. Hawaii is always been the destination. And we need to build this place powerfully, beautifully. So when we have, you know, the support of our great members of awareness who help this place, work on this place, develop this place. We're going to make it beautiful. So Vidya, Savitri— they're putting their attention into the development of this place. And then we have design team, Donna, Zochi, who are here, who are going to make this place a beautiful place. We did it, actually, was it today?

0:37:54
Yes, yesterday.

0:37:55
We made, we started to do some painting in one place on the one eye and it brought everything up a level of brightness and perfection and happiness and everything that Malarapa is doing in Bahia, in Manjushri, powerful yogis. They are transforming this place. Little by little, but it's amazing. Right now, you know, over there in Maracay, two new bathrooms, and those bathrooms are horrible. I can't see because of the lights, but if Sita's here, Sita is like, my bathroom looks horrible, I'm gonna live here. And it looks like this whole horrible encampment of a shower. And then we blew it up and we made it beautiful.

0:39:05
Right?

0:39:05
Now it's true, we did that. All right, so we're doing amazing things here. Yoga is happening right. We are building the most amazing Mila Rapa. What time is it?

0:39:24
41.

0:39:26
41. Okay. I just didn't want to be teaching. I don't want to over. But what we're doing here is great yoga. Milorapa, great. All the yogis here following Milorapa's lead, great. Beautiful, wonderful. You know, Manjushree and Vahiya are like, that's strong. And they're like, oh, you want to do that? That makes sense. Totally fine. There's no discourse. Everyone sees that Milarepa's direction is great. So we're doing this wonderful thing. And this is the house. And this house will be a foundation for meals and group meetings, but then our main place, monologue, is our place of powerful meditation. And it's very strong and very beautiful. Pilgrims, advanced students who have been here for a while, who have gotten the Kala Chakra empowerment, this is your opportunity to support building the temple. This will be the central temple. We have another temple in Bodhiputta, and it's something that we've always known, and we've always built. First it was here, and then we moved it, and now it's this beautiful glass dome, the crystal dome. So that's good. And that needs to be supported. And that's powerful for Sangha. But what we're doing here, building a big 2,500 square foot, you know, Japanese kind of roof, it's some money. A big thing we learned in Hawaii is construction is much more expensive. So showdowns. You have an opportunity to pay $15,000 to support our meditation hall and center. And if you do that, if you step up to that pledge, you can come to my Summer Solstice teaching of enlightenment. It is my highest teaching. For those of you who have been doing the Kala Chakra, I'm going to give you the highest teaching. It's not an empowerment. You have all the empowerments. best jewel of discrimination, of the highest teachings of the Kala Chakra. The Kala Chakra has tremendous empowerment, which you guys are all experiencing and that's good, but is the perfect seeing of what is truth. And the teaching I will give is the teaching of the highest truth of this teaching. I know this teaching very well. I've seen it for many times, my enlightenment and others' enlightenments, and seen it for a lot of times and then, you know, Leela. And what I can show you, I like that movie, Enlightened and Guaranteed. It's not guaranteed, but people will be enlightened. Like Buddha's great teachings. It was like, well, there was these guys being silly, and then I gave a teaching, and then four people became enlightened. Enlightenment will happen. It will happen for people in that teaching, and it will be the spring of enlightenment for everyone. Not everyone will be enlightened, but many will be from this one teaching. So Shodans, this is the time, if you want, step up, give support, help build the temple and also get the highest teachings that I have in this lifetime. I will always give advanced teachings, but for enlightenment, from my observations of myself, other enlightened beings, and my students, if you come to this teaching, enlightenment

0:45:38
happens. It's good. It's powerful. So,

0:45:42
$15,000 is a lot of money.

0:45:45
I mean, not that much for you guys.

0:45:48
I mean, most of you make a lot of money. And some of you are buying houses in Hawaii, so $15,000 is a big deal. You don't have to pay it all at once. It can be paid off over a year. The most important thing is that you say,

0:46:14
it's worth it, I want it.

0:46:16
You know, sign me up. $15,000 over a year is not a big deal. $15,000, if you put that on your credit card, this enlightenment would be worth it. So, I mean, I don't think advanced students have a big problem with $15,000. But that money builds your temple, builds our temple. You'll meditate there and say, I put into this place. And $15,000 is a lot, but building this temple is a lot. It's probably going to be a million-dollar temple. But this is our temple. It's not a yurt. We did a yurt, and that's okay. But let's do this well and powerful. Make something nice.

0:47:26
All right.

0:47:29
Thank you so much. we need to put together a structure, Asha, of advanced students who are going to put the $15,000 in so that we can develop a Nanda Loa, the meditation hall. There's so many blessings with that, but the main thing I'm going to do is, on the summer solstice, in that transit, I'm going to give you the greatest teaching of alignment.

0:48:18
And, I mean,

0:48:21
you've already gotten the greatest teacher, but this is a finishing school, which you deserve. You've done well. You're doing great. So this is going to transform everything from trying, and I know I was trying to a lot myself for a long time to Being So we're going to make that very big transformation, I know the teaching already I've watched you very carefully and And I have an amazing teaching it's going to be It's wonderful. And it supports building the central temple of our school. It's going to be a barn. Ah, it's a beautiful barn. It's a meditation barn. It's our temple. We live on a farm, a coffee farm. So we make a meditation barn. Okay, thank you all so much. Be well. Now we can take a break and then we come back to Savitri's teachings. And Savitri is amazing. Do you guys remember her last teaching? teaching, it was because she cared so much to teach you, she brought this big koan of Rama's teaching and she had a satori, an enlightened moment, and she was able to share that and Rama's teaching and she had a satori, an enlightened moment, and she was able to share that and and it was for real really really really wonderful. Okay, thank you all so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
