0:00:00
Hi everyone.

0:00:02
All right, we're going to begin with meditation. So we're going to sit for one song, focus on the third eye. Yeah, focus on the third eye. So one song, third eye. Okay, let's begin.

0:00:23
So, so So so so the the the the So, So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So so So All right, very nice.

0:08:50
Today I'd like to talk about teachers and teachings. So, during the Kalachakra empowerment with Rama, Rama spent about an hour talking about teachers. And he's like, Oh yeah, he's like, you don't only have to learn this from me, you can go to the Naropa Institute, he said, Satya Sai Baba, and he said, and then there's other teachers. And I'm like, why would I be here all this time studying with you, if in the advanced teachings you're saying, you can do it, you can learn this from anyone else. And it's because you can. You can learn this in the advanced path, a big part of it, and I've seen this with ST2s and ST1s, is not being fixed on a certain teacher. So, there's a process of learning from more than one teacher. And that was my experience and I saw that with other students of Rama. And that's why I really have always been very open, trying to expose you to other teachers, other enlightened beings. Because if you get fixed on one teacher, then that becomes a barrier to enlightenment. If you get fixed on any teacher, it becomes a barrier to enlightenment. So, for myself, after I was like, oh, I had a certain frame frame of mind where I have to study with an enlightened teacher, otherwise I'm nowhere. That's the only thing that can help me. So after he died, then I went to the Far East and I went around looking through Asia, going around to different Buddhist schools. And then I found lots of different Buddhist teachers, and they taught whatever they were able to teach. And so that was good. For a lot of Rama's students, after Rama died, they found some Rinpoche or some guru and they went on to learn with that teacher. So, after you get the advanced teachings, a very important thing is not to be fixed on the teacher, and also to be open-minded and look around. See what other teachings are out there. See if there's anything that works for you. Because there is all sorts of things that work for you. There's definitely all sorts of beautiful teachings and enlightened teachers that can be helpful. And then after the Kalachakra empowerment, it's important to be able to look around, see what's out there, see what works for you. So the danger with that is if you don't have good discrimination, you might find a teacher that is bad. So a number of Rama's students, ST2s, ended up studying with this one Indian teacher who was just a bad dude. He taught all this spiritual stuff, and he had power, but he was like an evil occultist. So then when the students studied with them, at first it was all this beautiful talk and all this good stuff, and then it turned into this horrible situation for them that they had to somehow escape from. And they mark it as a very terrible time in their life and a horrible spiritual experience. So, there are bad spiritual teachers out there. There are some that just suck, right? They're just like boring and lame. But they might have power and be bad. So fortunately, when I was at this stage, I didn't run into any bad teachers. I went to this guru that these guys were going to. They were all talking about how awesome he And I went and saw him and I was like, this is a bad dude. I was like, uh-uh. I was like, this is like an evil occultist. Well, kind of like an ST-1. But he self-generated power. ST-1s, they just kept on getting empowered by Rama. And then that's where they got their power from. Because after Rama died, then their power went way down. But this guy was able to generate his own power, and then he used it against people cleverly. teachers and teachings that you can explore and find benefit from. That's why this is part of the Kala Chakra empowerment. One, so that you don't get fixated on one teacher and two, that there are other dimensions that you learn from. The Kala Chakra has many dimensions and it opens up many opportunities. And if you get fixated on one teacher, then it's a block and then you won't learn more. this block of thinking only Rama could be enlightened. I guess I felt that too. But it was like he had a big fixation on like, Rama can be enlightened, Rama is enlightenment. And then it was hard for him to let go of that idea that only Rama could be enlightened. But when he was able to let go of that idea, he was able to move on. With me, I saw Rama as enlightenment for a long time, but then when I trusted my experience in meditation, I saw that it wasn't like honoring Rama, respecting Rama was not a barrier, it was an aid to my enlightenment. So I didn't have a fixation. I guess I did a little bit in the beginning. I was like, wow, Rama's enlightened. And then when he died, I'm like, I got to find someone else who's enlightened the future. But yeah, when I was at this point in my practice, I really just trusted my meditation, my experience, and I didn't have a fixation that Rama was the Buddha and I can't be a Buddha. That wasn't even a question for me. All I did was the practice, and it worked. So fixation on a single teacher would be silly. If you think, oh, Simbara is enlightenment and I can't do it, then that would be silly. So the thing is that everything is enlightenment. And Rama said many times, life is the ultimate teacher. And if you need an enlightened master, you should be that enlightened master. So, I remember Rama always had this open door policy, like I do, which is, you know, you should see that your meditations are brighter, but you should also see that your physical life is stronger. So, you should see that you make more money, you move up in your career, you should see that your yoga or your spiritual pursuits are stronger. And then that's great. That's fantastic. But if you see that you start spacing out or you're really into this teacher and this teaching, but your physical life isn't stronger, it's kind of like the markers of balance and success that you learn. If you don't see that those are actually, those indicators are going in the right direction, then you have to say, wow, maybe I'm too much in the second attention. So a lot of what's working spiritually and what's not. Because when you look at other teachers, they have this whole thing, whole different energy, whole different expression of enlightenment, and you can get carried away and unbalanced, too much in the second attention. And then, it's actually, you think it's like amazing and incredible, but it's actually spacing out. It would be too much second attention, not integrating into the first attention. After Rama died, they joined the Adidam. There was this great guru, Adidam Samraj, and they went to join his school. And in his school, he definitely had yoga work to do. So I remember where one student, she was working on their IT system. It was called the Matrix. It was their organizational infrastructure technology. And she was an awesome technologist. She worked on Wall Street, she was a really great programmer, she was excellent. And then she joined the Adidam, and she really liked Adidam, and she was really into his books and his teachings and everything. And then she was like, I can help on this because I'm good at this. And then I remember talking to her, she's all, okay, so yeah, I'm working on some project. And I was like, cool. And like, so, you know, she told me a little bit about the project, the technologies, and she's like, oh, that's because of the people I'm working with, and everything's unclear, and all sorts of stuff. And I'm like, whoa. I'm like, you took a step backwards. I mean, yeah, it's great that you like all this stuff, but it's too much second attention. And you actually have the ability to do things in the first attention. So I remember I talked to her and I was just like, wow, what would Rama say? And she's all, ooh, he would have yelled at me about this. And I'm like, yeah, and you're just all there, all this good bhakti love stuff, which is nice, isn't all bad. But if you can't integrate it and have a strong first attention, then there's something off. So then she snapped into it and then she was like, whoosh, and she finished the thing in two weeks. So the thing is, there's plenty of spiritual teachings out there, but if you're going to be a dumbass and learn them and be a freaking idiot and look the wrong way when you're trying to walk across the street, then what good are they? It's like, oh, really neat. There's all sorts of dimensions, energies, and powers. But if you can't integrate it into balance, that brings you into the center. Then you'll just be a spaced out freak. So learning with other teachers is really good. It's something that you'll do for the rest of your life. But you really have to make sure that you're balanced when you're doing it. And then it's beautiful. And then what you'll do eventually is you'll move beyond needing a teacher. So actually you don't need a teacher at this point. But it's important to be open-minded to other teachers, because they do have teachings to give you. But you don't need a teacher. And that's when you're enlightened. When you're not like, oh my God, I have to learn from this teacher. You might really respect a teacher, you might love a teacher, but you're not all like, oh my God, I have to study with that teacher, I have to follow that teacher's program, I recognize lots of enlightened teachers, and I really like them, and I love their teachings. And I gain from their teachings, their books and things, but it's not something that I feel that... it doesn't make me higher. There's insight there, there's wisdom there, but what makes me higher is my own meditation. And there's nothing higher than that for me. And what you should understand eventually with spiritual teachers is that spiritual are spiritual friends. So they might have a structure. They might be the crazy Zen master who gives you a hard time, all sorts of things. They might give you hard corrections and all these things. And they might have some whole school where you have to read 1,000 books or whatever. You've got to do a bunch of yoga. and these are all very constructive structures for beginning and intermediate students. But in the advanced path, those are good, and doing that is good, but you have to inwardly move beyond it. Just like in a karate dojo, there might be third, fourth, fifth degree black belts, and they'll just be sitting there doing basic technique, like basic kata, over and over and over. katha, follow that structure, because it is powerful, because it is good, but they are beyond that. So the way to be with teachings is, for enlightened teachers, is to see the and the dimensions and the enlightenment and the truth in all teachings. And at the same time, be beyond them. Be beyond any structure of any school. Be beyond any attachment to any teacher. But when you talk to that teacher, you learn from that teacher, you honor that teacher, but then you're beyond that. That's enlightenment. If you're attached to the teacher, if you're struggling through the structures, then the teacher and the school is a limitation. It's an obstacle in your mind. So you have to get to the point where you see that the teacher is really, I guess I would say, a spiritual friend. And all the things that you have to do, the structure of the school, those are wonderful things to do. Why does the Fifth Degree Black Belt do basic technique? Because it's really good. It's powerful. Structures are powerful. But you can't be entrapped in the structure. So, life is the teacher. If you need an enlightened master, you should be the enlightened master. Every enlightened teacher you should honor and respect, but don't get caught up in attachment. And then, any teaching that you get, you really need to check the indicators of balance. Is your life getting better? Is your job better? Is your yoga stronger? If not, you're not integrating that second attention teaching very well. And a lot of spiritual teachers don't talk about the First Intention at all. So they'll just be off in like, the self is a self, which isn't a self, but it could be a self. Stuff like that. And you're like, wow! And then you fall down while you weren't trying to get up. So anyway, on teachers, today I have three short teachings that I want to share with you from really amazing, enlightened teachers. I think these three teachers are new to you, but they're ones that I've seen for a while and they're really cool. And they're American. So these are three guys, three white guys. And then there's also two women, and I can share their talks with you too. It's just that these guys have short 10-minute talks, and the women's talks are each like two hours long. There's also a book that I want to recommend. It's called Spiritual Enlightenment by Jed McKenna. I'll give you a link to it. This was a book that Jana shared with me. It's good. I really like Jed because he speaks English and he doesn't have really out there concepts. One thing that I... The reason that I want you to read his book, because Adi Das Samraj has like 1,000 books that he wrote. And they're very, very powerful, enlightened books. So a lot of spiritual teachers, they're talking in a certain way and about a certain thing. It's just kind of, you've got to really get into it to get the power out of it, see the dimensions. And then it's just a little bit inaccessible. And with Spiritual Enlightenment, it's accessible. It's a story of his experience and what's going on. And it's really bright. The thing that I like about him is that he has this ruthlessness about his enlightenment. He's like, you've got to go for it attitude, and that comes through in the book. And so that that's the right thing. I think that is a good message. It's a very clean, accessible book, a good story, and that spirit of that ruthlessness, like, I'm going to become enlightened, you've got to go for it no matter what, go through every barrier. That's his primary primary teaching. So that's cool. So we're going to watch three teachings, and then I'll also give you the links to the two women's teachings. They're awesome. And then there's the book. So this is an important cycle. This is why Rama talked about teachers in the Kalachakra empowerment. He talked about other teachers and other teachings for like an hour. I'm just like, I'm so bored. I'm not interested in that. I've been doing this. I want to get enlightened from you, you know? Then he's all, well he can't because he dies. Boo! I'm like, god damn it. Always tricks me. Yeah, but then, you know, then I went around and saw like, you know, 60 other teachers in the Far East. Then I was like, I better get enlightened because those guys suck. Yeah, I should have gone to India. You know, Buddhism is dead. Buddhism is dead. If we call this Buddhism, then it's alive. But we do a lot more than just Buddhism, right? We do Taoism, Hinduism, or other isms. This is a very different thing than the original Buddhists. If we talk to regular Theravada Buddhists or Tibetan Buddhists, they go, you're weird. You don't know basic things. I'm like, oh, okay, sorry. So Buddhism is pretty dead. All of these teachers are not Buddhist. They all learned Buddhism, but none of them are Buddhist. They're just spiritual. They're enlightened. So you've got to see what's real. And this is good that I'm showing you these guys. These are really good people. You can go and watch more of their videos or read their books, stuff like that. They're really awesome. And then you won't run into some evil occultist who tricks you into becoming their student. For some people, like ST3s, you guys remember Dave Coleman? He got trapped in this school with this one evil teacher. He was a smart and powerful guy. He's like, I had to fight to get out of that. Because the guy was an occultist. He trapped them in so many dimensions and ways. It can get nasty. So anyway, we're going to watch these three teachings. We're going to watch them back-to-back. So the first one is David Spiro and he's a jolly good fellow, so I've met him and talked to him. He is a jolly good fellow. Very enlightened, he has a very strong focus on harmlessness. So in his interactions with people, he's very, very harmless, very caring, very, very, very, very amazing. And there's And the second is, who was your second one? Oh yeah, Sat Sri. And Sat Sri is a jolly good fellow. So I haven't met him, but I watched a lot of his videos, because he's, so he's got like a special, you have to have a membership to watch his videos. So that's who Durga studies with. I watched a bunch of videos with her. She was all, here's who I'm studying with. And he's fantastic. And she talked to him about me. And then, let's see, when was that? I don't know. Anyway, she talked to him about me. She was all, hey, I got this friend. And he's all enlightened and stuff. And then he was all, yeah! And he had all this insight. And then his next teaching, he'd give a teaching about me. Never even met him in the first attention, but in the second attention, he was very strong. So, really great fellow. And then the third one is Adyashanti. And Adyashanti, he studied with Gangaji, I think, But he is an old-time Zen master. He's like a very, very, very, very wise, enlightened being. And he also, I like him a lot because he can express in words enlightenment in ways that like other people can't. Okay, so anyway, three really, really, really high enlightened beings and beautiful teachings. So I just wanted to share this with you. A very long comment from Santa Monica, California.

0:40:04
Lately what's happening, after reading the Ashtavakra and the Uttapaditas, literally hundreds of times over the years, but not for a while, I recently reread them. From first, God, not just intellectually, the mind is hopelessly dualistic. And second, one can abide more and more as an indeterminate.

0:40:40
That is, being a fool, no emptiness, or any other form of being.

0:40:46
That is, and what's not?

0:40:50
I pay a little bit less.

0:40:52
You're like, what's going on?

0:40:54
There's a big problem with that.

0:40:56
Could you read that again and try to read it

0:40:59
with a little better pronunciation, a little louder, so I can actually hear? Lately, what's happening? After reading the Ashtavapra and the Ava Uta Gitas, literally hundreds of times over the years, but not for a while. I recently re-read them. From first, I got not just intellectually, the mind is hopelessly dualistic, and second, one can abide more and more as intermediae, that is, neither form nor emptiness, nor any other duality. For example, is and is not I pay less attention to the mind.

0:41:48
The mind is the slayer of the real.

0:41:55
That's a relevant comment. A very good comment and commentary about your own spiritual evolution. First off, using scripture in the way you are using it is an excellent way to test one's level of realization, which in this case includes understanding of realization. There is no realization without its concomitant understanding. This is the first important comment I will offer. The second is that you seemed to speak of a neutrality of the mind, that is, you became aware of the mind's non-position, it's a positional reality while reading the scripture, which suggests that you're beginning to understand non-duality in a very concrete way. Now for the purpose of this discussion, I am not going to distinguish between realization and its understanding. So what we are talking about here are the merits of your discriminative yoga, your discriminative investigation, your of the nature of mind and of course where mind abides, which is the nature of the self. mentioned something else that seemed important when Orly read it, so I'm going to ask Orly to read that comment one more time, so I can hear the last portion of it one more time. Can you read the whole thing or just the last portion?

0:44:40
Read the whole thing, let me hear it again. Lately, what's happening? After reading the Ashtabhapra and the Advahuta Gita literally hundreds of times over the years, but not for a while, I recently reread them. For the first, I got, not just intellectually, the mind is hopelessly dualistic, and second, one can abide more and more as intermedia, that is, neither form nor emptiness, nor any other duality.

0:45:21
For example, an is, is and is not, I pay less attention to the mind. The mind is the slayer of the real. Therefore the mind is complicit in a positive sense with realization. It is a complicit actor, which means it co-participates in realization even when it realizes something negative about itself. So this mind is like a two-way passageway, it denies realization and lets realization in. This is the paradox of understanding realization. It's shedding light on what is realized while it is displaying the nature of what obfuscates, or better said, which filters through realization. So yes, it's filtering so that realization is understood for what the mind, and a much more advanced understanding of non-duality. Remember, annihilating the mind falls into that old-fashioned, traditionalist, extremely bifurcated understanding of non-dual realization, which sees it's either the mind or not the mind. So what we are doing here, what you have done, what we are discussing, is something different and better. This is the value that scripture holds when you read the right scriptures, and these are two good ones, which are non-dualistically based and which will bring out, for those on the non-dual path, that flavor of realization. This is really important to explore. He also alluded to something, which again I'm forgetting as I give this response to you, but that the mind itself is duality. That was given in one of the earliest sentences in his commentary. I won't ask Wally to read it again, but he said that the mind was hopelessly, essentially, and I'm paraphrasing, addicted to duality or the victim of duality or the creator of duality. So to notice something like that, if it's not just an intellectual understanding, if and he said it was not, points toward a deeper form of understanding about the nature of the mind. So this comment points toward the active participatory nature of the mind in realization, while it appreciates its own negative value and also the truth that is allowed to shine through. And this is why I am passionate about the relationship between the mind and realization, and why I do not discount the mind. That at some point it's going to become necessary that the mind participate inside of awakened consciousness. That it's not a question of the mind either going away or staying. And when it's able to understand and experience this, it's now floating inside the realized state to some degree, or has understood that,

0:50:32
or both. That was a good comment. Thank you for sharing it.

0:50:38
In 2004, I had been with my teacher for six years and he said, I am satisfied, you're

0:51:04
finished. You've come to the state of the self. And now I want you to open a center. He opened a center for me in Sacramento, California, in the United States. And I began to be the teacher for that center for him. And in that process, I began to discover that there was no difference between me and you. I began to be able to feel and experience where each person was on the journey up at this point and how to guide them into the next. This continued until 2007. In 2007, Guadalupurnim Day in July, another thing happened. I stepped out of my individual awakened state and I became universal. I recognized that what I was, what we all are, is what's been known as Shiva or Krishna or Vishnu, And in that moment, there was no guru. There was no teaching necessary. I became the total realization, the complete realization, whole and complete within itself, and I immediately notified everyone that I was done teaching, that I was no longer with Sri Atmananda, that I could not any longer be with Sri Atmananda because there was no difference. It's just completed. That was the name of my teacher, Sri Atmananda. He's still alive here in Theravada Anomaly. Of course, at first he was very, he does what he does. He got very angry, told everybody. At that time he had given me the name of Siddhartha. He said, Siddhartha, his ego has been overtaken and everybody has to convince him to come back on track. And they all tried to do it, but I said, look it, there's nothing here. I can't continue to do this. It's just no longer there. Sorry. I wish I could. I had thought I was going to spend the rest of my life serving my teacher. I was perfectly happy for the rest of my life to serve my teacher. So I did not expect this. And when it came, it came as the tail end of a process that started when I opened the center in Sacramento in 2004. And that, when that center started, I started going into states that were completely different than what I had experienced before. And the nature of these states, it was so compelling and so completely gripping that I could not move. I literally couldn't breathe. I couldn't do anything. And when I would come out of it, days would have gone by. Certainly hours would have gone by. and I would come out of it not having a clue that I had been gone. Literally, I had no thirst, I had no hunger, I had no need to go to the bathroom, I had no sense of tiredness, but I didn't have anything else. I felt good, but I just felt like I came back. So when this happened, it blew me out. The next time it happened, my brother, who happened to also be assigned with my teacher, took me in his car to my teacher at the time who was in the United States, and he said, What's happening to my brother? And my teacher looked at me disgustingly and he said, Don't worry, you don't have to go through this. It ends up that I was going into what's called Samadhi, Savaka Pala Samadhi. But this was an extraordinary effort, the extraordinary thing. The thing that happened is about every three days the state would occur. And when I would come out of the state from then on, I had to reassemble my personhood. I had to learn to talk. It was like recovering from a stroke. It's like each time I had to come back. Now this time I'm running a spiritual center, right? So when I come out, there are people saying, where have you been? Now after some months they got used to it. Some people, because Satya Priti was around back then, there were other people around back then, and these things went on with my teacher never gave me an explanation. I had no idea what it was, but I was becoming the silence and stillness in my whole system. My thoughts stopped, the drives for life stopped, my bodily functions stopped. This went on for three and a half years. At the end of that, this state came. And this state was the recognition that what I have become is eternal and unchanging, and that there is nothing to do. I became the prusha. I became the silence and stillness. And what did I do? I closed up the center, handed it over to other people. And my teacher came some months later, and I sat down with him on a grassy field because he didn't want anybody in the group know he was talking to me because I've been completely ostracized. And he said, I did, I, you know, I didn't want this, but this is what happened. He could recognize right off the bat what it was. And he said, Okay, so you have two things. I'm going to guide you on this because I've been through this process. You need to be 500 miles away from me and you need to start a non-profit organization, which seemed absolutely irrelevant to what the state of consciousness I came to. Are you kidding? But I could do the 500 miles away. So I ended up living in a little room above a daycare center in Olympia, Washington on the coast of northern western coast of the United States, northwest coast of the United States. And I was completely fine. The person was like gone. There was this straw dog, this empty person that would putter around here and there, nothing missing, nothing to get, nothing to do, no sense of purpose, very different than what you see now. It was as if it was an incubation, an incubation period. And from there, people started coming. I came up with, then I began to look at, all right, well, what am I doing then? What would it be if I started a non-profit organization? What would it be? And what I took was a quote from the Bhavad Gita, which was why Krishna incarnates. During periods of darkness, I come again and again to strengthen the virtue, to destroy the evil and to reestablish dharma. And I said, of course, that's the only reason I would come. I would only come to have a job in the life. And when I would come, what would it do? It would be strengthen the virtue. That means strengthen your ability to know the truth of what you are. And destroy the darkness will pretty much, that happens automatically when you know who you are. You begin to have this capacity to pull out of your negative story, to pull out of the habit that you've been run by. And then automatically what happens? You start living aligned with your purpose. That's your Dharma. So that's what new Dharma is about. And I, at this time, Satchamayi and I were beginning to work together, she had been in nonprofits for many years and founded the nonprofits and the rest of it. So we began to pull it together. And I guess it's, we became a recognized nonprofit with the United States government in 2009, they did not want us to be a nonprofit. They sent us 126 or how many questions? 126 questions or 119 questions on why we should make you a nonprofit. And I'm rather than just say, well, screw it. I use it as an opportunity to articulate exactly what it was would be doing and we are doing exactly that. It was a great blessing because that's exactly what's happening. Then right around 2009 and that's when I met the SOT. I can't tell you, I can't really describe it because what showed up for me was an image that really didn't describe what it was. But something happened that showed me, in a way I can't tell you how I know, what this principle is. And it was this sense of the scale of this creation in relationship to any one of us. The absolute insignificance. And with it, the absolute significance simultaneously.

1:01:12
Well, I mean, what we're really describing is, in this case, two very distinct forms of perception, right? And two very distinct stages of awakening. And one of those, often, that occurs for people is really the total transcendence days. They wake up, up and out of the self structure, the ego structure. They realize that's not really what I am. And then, whatever concept they use to define what they are isn't particularly important, necessarily. What's important is they've woken up from the egoic structure. And also, even the physical body, the way, and of course then you could put gender into that too, all the ways that we define ourselves. And so a waking up is really, it's a shift of perception, is really what's occurring. And the perception they really often shift into is the real transcendent perception, which is I'm not that, now I'm this, what we call as pure consciousness or being or whatever the words are. And that's, the way, I didn't say that this evening, but we get, then we get the world down to a nice manageable duality. We have the nothingness of pure awareness or pure being and then everything else, right? And everything else is right down to your human form, to all the other forms in existence and your day-to-day life. And then you experientially, you get everything down to the formless and form. And it's very liberating because the realm of the formless, the transcendent, it's of another dimension in the world of form and so it's not affected by it, ultimately. And it's not concerned, it's not worried about things. It's very, very liberating, very freeing. But if one gets very, very deeply into that transcendent place and then gets stuck, because the ego actually can make its way in there and kind of go, ooh, this is what I always wanted. I always wanted to be safe and to be untouched and to find a place where I could never be harmed. And okay, unconsciously, you can kind of go, okay, I'll be this, because this is safe, and this is beautiful, and it's transcendent. So you can get stuck there. One of the symptoms of where you get stuck there is your relative life might start to fall apart. Your relationships, your work life, lots of things, because most of you won't be engaged. I've heard people say about their partners, they're just not here anymore. It's like there's 5% of them that's here and the other 90%, I don't know where they are, but they're not here. And things start to, when you don't give time and attention, they start to fall apart. So it can be stuck, but even if you weren't stuck, it's just a particular stage of spiritual development, right? A totally transcendent state. But, one of the indications is that it's not real, not ultimately the reality, is because it's not whole. It's got two things, you know, formless and form. And it's not whole, and reality is always whole. It's all-inclusive. And so, a deeper state of maturity is when we really mature into what... I even hesitate to say the words because they're misleading too, but what unity really is. What is this? Okay, I woke up from this. Great. But what is this? What is this world of form? What actually really is it? We've given it so many names. What is it? And that can lead to, help open the way to a deeper state of realization where the very concepts of form and formless don't make sense anymore, because then the formless is form and form is the formless, and it's just actually one thing appearing two different ways. And that happens in the level of realization or change of perception, but it also has some very important consequences or implications when it comes to living your life. Because then all of a sudden, bam, there you are again. You're back, you're here. You're not out there, transcended. You're actually here now. But the difference is once you've made this sort of metaphorical journey, that you're here in a way where you're not afraid anymore, because you know there's nothing to lose, you know there's nothing to gain, and that's no longer a place that you hold on to, to buffer yourself against life. If it's really so true there's nothing to lose or gain, then why would one hold back? Why not engage, you see? And then that becomes a deeper, more mature state of spirituality, almost where the whole notion of spirituality starts to collapse, right, into sort of one, just one movement, one happening. And I think it's sort of very, very important, especially now, because more and more people are having these really beautiful transcendent experiences. And now that some people have been hanging out in them for a long enough time, there's a second stage of maturity that's starting to... wanting to happen everywhere I go. But to really get this to come full circle from transcendence over here all the way to completeness. The transcendent realization is, I call it a freebie. You don't have to do anything. You don't have to earn it. In fact, the only thing you have to do is stop trying to earn it and deserve it and attain it. It's a sort of, you relax all that and it can come. because in order for emptiness or being or spirit to really function here through this vehicle, it can't do so in a clear way unless a lot of the stuff that you transcended gets flushed out of the system. So when you transcend it, you're just beyond it. But to function here, being beyond it isn't good enough. Then there's a transformation that actually happens here, right down to the world of form. And that, of course, means all of your... whatever psychological hang-ups you may still have had, that you transcended, when spirit comes back, sometimes there they are waiting for you. And those then have to be seen. They have to be also resolved in a more unified vision. But that's a part of it that rarely happens all at once. That's a part of the maturing that's often, for most people, unfolds over time. And for some, it's much easier than for others. You just never know.

1:09:43
Yeah, so those guys are awesome, like super, super, super amazing. So they're enlightened

1:09:54
and in their teachings, it's very, very bright, very powerful, and they're talking about enlightenment, and that's the real deal. They are the genuine article. So the second part that I'd like to talk to you about, after teachers, is teachings. So one of the very powerful things that helps you to become enlightened is teaching. So even these enlightened teachers, they're still teaching. So, why are they teaching? There's a reason why they're teaching. Because when you're enlightened and you can share the Dharma, it's the Dharma. So if someone's enlightened, then that kind of comes natural. Some teachers, or some enlightened people don't teach. But on the way to enlightenment, teaching is very, very, very helpful. Many enlightened people that you know were teaching through their whole enlightenment cycle. Me too. Shiva and I don't know who else. Turiya, yeah. And Agnikala, Kundalini, all of them were teaching during their Teaching is a tremendous aid to your enlightenment. So while you're going through the enlightenment cycle, it's really, really, really good to share the way. So I recommend that you teach. You can teach in the Buddha Dojo and you can also just teach intro classes on your own. So you can do whatever. Oh, Lila's here. Lila was teaching intro classes through her enlightenment

1:12:59
cycle.

1:13:00
She'd show up in Santa Cruz, and three losers would show up and try to sell her something. And they would lecture her, and then try to ask her for money and stuff like that. So it doesn't matter if weird things happen in the physical, the fact that you teach is very, very powerful. And those might be very powerful and there's many, many, many, many students in our school that have gone through the enlightenment cycle teaching and I think That teaching was a big aid. This is what Rama taught. Rama taught that teaching is very enlightening and he said, that's why I teach. But Saksri had a good reason. He was like, what am I going to do with my non-profit? He said, oh, it's why Krishna incarnated. like smash bad stuff, strengthen virtue, and reveal the Dharma. And if you're teaching and you're trying to get bad stuff to stop happening, trying to make more good stuff happen, strengthen the Dharma, then you're really doing something very, very, very, very So, I recommend teaching. The Buddha Dojo is a really good structure for teaching. It's a very, very powerful structure in the second attention. And if you work with that, you're going to be uplifted. It's going to be like a turbo boost, it's going to be a backpack with jets. Anyway, teaching. So you should really look out there and say, hey, I want to teach in the Buddha Jojo, what can I do? And then if you want to do more, do inter-classes or something. It's very, very helpful for your enlightenment. Okay, so that was my teaching on teachings and teachers. 감사합니다. Okay. Yeah, so today, you know, it's just advanced students, so I could be politically correct with you. Oh, but this is cool. Look, I got this. It's a manta ray, but it's from the side. See? It's like all... Yeah, so this is cool. There's a farmer's market, like, that way.

1:16:27
In Captain Cook.

1:16:28
I know, but on here, when I...

1:16:30
Yeah, so there's a farmer's market on Sundays,

1:16:35
Captain Cook, that is really nice.

1:16:40
I really like it. First of all, they have lots of fresh produce, but they also have good food. So I remember walking in and we were looking at some papayas and we came across this Thai restaurant. And it was nine in the morning and I was like, I don't eat during the day. But then I was all, hmm, I got to try one. And I tried it, and I was like, oh my god. It's like the best pork bun I ever had. And then I was like, OK, it's on. And then I went around trying all sorts of foods. They have all sorts of cool foods there. So Juan's tacos are just OK. Hawaii is really not a taco place.

1:17:38
But it's really good.

1:17:40
And then we got lots of produce there, and they have all sorts of beautiful art and music. And the thing about the place is that usually when I go to a little farmer's market, anyone go to the Pacifica farmer's market? It's terrible, horrible, sucks. You go there and you're all... or if you go to like some festival, festivals are like draining, right? And then you go to this farmers market and it's not draining. It's just not draining. It's kind of... and it's happy. So I'm like, wow, that's where I'm going tomorrow. I'm gonna be there, I'm gonna be like, Oh yeah, so they have lots of art and things like that, but there's this one little booth where they carve different stones. This is made out of cow bones. So mostly stones and bones, they do carvings. And I was like, wow, they're really, you know, very nicely done. But then, I was just sitting there talking to the guy, and the guy was like, yeah, you know, this is like, my father does these carvings, and he's, you know, like, there's not a lot of artists who do this anymore. And I was like, that's true. So I just, I wanted to, like, you know, support the locals. So I was like, oh, I'll buy one of those. And then I was like, actually, this is really cool. It's very unique. Anyway, so that's a cool place. Like it a lot.

1:19:30
It's open on Friday, Tuesday, and Saturday.

1:19:32
Yeah, it's by Choice Mart.

1:19:33
Yeah.

1:19:35
They're open on Fridays, I think, too.

1:19:37
Friday, Tuesday, and Saturday. They're open on Fridays?

1:19:39
I read about it.

1:19:43
Do you need to have cash?

1:19:47
So, most of them take credit cards. Some of them don't, though. Most of them take credit cards, but a few don't. Venmo. Yeah. Yeah, there's this one little booth where they sell, they're Brazilians, and they sell these Brazilian sandwiches things. I don't know. It's not like bread, it's like some kind of weird thing. Anyway, it's really tasty. But that one, Venmo. Yeah, so that's cool. Anyway, so I will send you guys an email with a link to these two talks. They're actually interviews with these two enlightened women and they're very cool. He sent us these again. What's that? The links to the ones that we saw. Okay, I'll send you the links to these ones too. These are great. These teachers are amazing teachers. I like Sat Sri, he's funny. David wasn't funny here, but David is funny. He's wicked funny. He goes to Tiruvannamalai a lot. And Rishikesh, those are the two places he always goes to, those two places. And yeah, and Durga started studying with him and she was like, wow, all this shit's coming together now. I was like, yeah, you used to be a loser. Just kidding. But yeah, but yeah, Satri is really good. You know, and all these teachers have books But yeah, Sutree is really good. And all these teachers have books and videos and stuff like that. So if you want to get into it, you can get into it. But I like these three videos because they're the genuine article talking about the genuine article. They are what they're talking about. And I'm like, ugh.

1:22:02
Sounds good.

1:22:04
Um.

1:22:06
Um.

1:22:08
Um.

1:22:10
Mooji! Yeah, Mooji's enlightened.

1:22:12
Yeah.

1:22:14
Um.

1:22:16
They're great!

1:22:18
Um. They're uh... What should I say? You know, like, I tend not to talk about enlightenment the same way that a lot of enlightened people do, or people who are spiritual. Where, the mind is like the mind, looking at the mind, but not looking at the mind. I don't talk like that. So I mean, it's true, and if you focus on what they're saying, you see the truth in it. But I'm just all, I don't know, let's paint the deck. I can talk about things like that, I can get into it, but I find it to be mostly just an intellectualization. So Mooji does that too. He gets into the intellectual stuff. He's interesting though. He's awesome. I like him a lot. The Mooj. Yeah, so Mooji's good. Gangaji's good. So there are a lot of enlightened people. But I also have to say this. Rama would probably not say they're enlightened. He would say, that's a level of liberation, but Rama had a different definition of enlightenment. Rama said Satya Sarvabha was enlightened, but he would say for the rest of them, that's a level of liberation, but it's not what he called enlightenment. Rama, whenever he talked about enlightenment was talking about Krishna, like fully enlightened kind of thing. And then he said that there are people who have some level of awakening, but it's not perfect and things like that. And even Sat Sri, he keeps saying, I changed and I changed and I changed. And I do too. I keep changing and changing and changing. And I was like, when I had my first Nirvikalpa Samadhi and my first liberation, I was like, wow, that's enlightenment, woohoo! And then something else happened. And in the Kalachakra teachings, there's a structure to go three levels of enlightenment. But Rama said, there's ten levels of enlightenment. And so, within the Kalachakra, there's support to get to the third level of enlightenment. But Rama, the way he talked in the 80s and 90s, he wouldn't even call that enlightenment. So then when he told us, yeah, you guys can have primary liberation, I was like, what? He's like, yeah, it's enlightenment. And then I was like, oh, that sounds good. I was like, no way, because you always talked about enlightenment being all the way up here. But it is enlightenment. It is enlightenment. But this is what happened. Buddha was fully enlightened. And then Buddha would say that his arhats, his enlightened students, were the same as him. But you're like, really? Sorry, Poochra had a couple good things to say, but, you know, but Buddha seemed bigger. So here's the thing there are Lots and lots of levels of enlightenment you could say but the moment that you have liberation is Where the self goes away you you go into nirvana and then you come back

1:26:20
and

1:26:21
And then you come back. And then even though you're back in the physical world and yourself again, there's still in your heart a knowledge of selflessness. It doesn't come back. You're still aware in your heart of nirvana. And then I guess just from there it grows more and more and more. So there's more and more and more enlightenment. Until you're fully enlightened. Whatever that is. But that's what Sat Sri said. He was like talking about, he was talking about me, and he was like, this Sambara guy is going to be fully enlightened. And guess he was right. Sat Sri, jolly good fellow. All these guys are very good, very harmless. That's what I like about the way that they teach. Harmless teachings.

1:27:42
I teach with a little elbow.

1:27:45
You want some emptiness?

1:27:46
I'll give you some emptiness. Dun, dun, dun, dun, dun.

1:27:53
Anyway, thank you.

1:27:55
Kamsahamnida.

1:27:56
Be well.

1:27:57
Bye. well oh wait wait wait one last thing okay I'll give you guys these videos but unless you want to fuck over another student don't give them to boat on or or st5 like if you want to fuck them over it's fine but it just it could just confuse them. It's very important to get to this level of the advanced path to be able to look at other features and understand things properly. Otherwise, it can confuse people. It all has to be one way until there's no way.

1:28:42
Okay. Okay. Peace!




Transcribed with Cockatoo
