0:00:00
Thank you for joining Satsang today. We're going to begin with meditation. We're going to do a meditation on the heart for one song.

0:00:12
Nice and straight.

0:00:14
Let's begin.

0:00:15
the the the the the the the the the the the so All right, wonderful. So, wherever you go, there you are. This is a powerful Buddhist teaching. This means where your mind is, is where you are physically is a good place.

0:05:48
If your mind is in a place that can be disturbed, then whether you're in heaven or hell, you'll be disturbed. In hell, a little bit more. But enlightenment is the way out. It's the way out of this is pretty good, this is pretty bad. This is good, this is bad. This is heaven, this is hell. And so with enlightenment, wherever you go, there you are. You can meditate in heaven perfectly. You can meditate in hell perfectly. So really take a look at your mind. Where is your mind? Is your mind in a really good place? Because if your mind is in a good place, the circumstances in your life are wonderful.

0:06:39
They're okay.

0:06:40
There might be pain, hardship, difficulty, but it's manageable, and there's an underlying beautiful, wonderful, miraculous goodness to your life? I remember on my first trip to Hawaii, and that's when I brought my students from San Francisco, we moved to Oahu and we did many, many different types of practices and exercises. And we were doing one weekend a practice of selfless giving. We went to a nursing home and we were entertaining the people at the nursing home. And there And she was just really unhappy, really bothered. Everything that we did, and I told some pretty silly jokes. And everything that we did, she wouldn't laugh. She wouldn't smile. And then after a while, I came over to her and I said, hey. And I was telling her some jokes and telling her some happy things. And then I said, you're in Hawaii. You know, I was like, where are you from? She said, Denver or something like that. And I said, you're in Hawaii. Like, Denver has like cold winters. Here it's tropical and beautiful, amazing sunsets, like great, great weather. Like you're in paradise now. You are in paradise now. And what do you think? You're just all upset? And then she started to list off the things she's not happy about. I don't like this place. And my son doesn't visit me enough. And things like that. And I was like, wait a second. You're in this great place. And in her mind, she had dissatisfaction. She was missing things. She wasn't happy. Even though she's in Hawaii. And Hawaii is a beautiful place. Around here, there's Kona Paradise, there's Paradise Coffee. Everything paradise, coffee, you know, it's like everything is called paradise here because it's really what we would call paradise. Beautiful weather, warm water dolphins, whales, you know, just wonderful things, beautiful vegetation, amazing flowers, everything, all of the conditions for a good, happy human life exist here. And yet, someone could come here and be filled with discontent, because wherever you go, there you are. So, that's the same not only in a physical location, but in what you do. Some people, whatever they do, they love what they do. And I would say that that person is a yogi, whether they have the training or not, they have the heart of a yogi. And some people, whatever they do, they're not happy. Maybe they're just dissatisfied, maybe they're like, no, there must be something, my work and life, maybe I should be, you know, this or that, a poet, a politician, a podiatrist, something else with a P. People are like, I should do something, something, something, and then they're never happy with what they're doing. And we have to recognize that whatever you're doing is where you should bring your mind and you should be happy. My teacher once was, I think at some little diner somewhere between Las Vegas and LA. And he said he heard strong, powerful words of wisdom from his waitress. And she came to LA to try to be a movie star, and then 20 years later, she's like, life is what happens to you while you're waiting for your boat to come in. And that means that you might have this perfect idea that you're going for, and you want everything to be great, but life is what's happening to you right now. Life is here right now, and this is the time to make the most of it, and to be happy, and to be positive. Because even if you get the highest yoga, the highest, most amazing thing, if it's the greatest opportunity, then if you don't take advantage of it, you're not going to be well off. Yoga is this very high teaching in the Bhagavad Gita. Krishna speaks of it as a pathway to enlightenment. But if you don't really bring your best to it and check your mind every time, and check the self every time, then it can become a way of egotism. It can become a way of self, even though it's supposed to be yoga. And if it's a way of self, it doesn't work very well. So there was this one Buddhist monk in Nepal, Tibetan Buddhist monk, but in Nepal, and he was very, very, very strong and advanced in his ashram. And he was very good at painting tankas. And there was another monk there that was pretty good at painting tankas, but he was better and he always was like, I'm better than you, I'm better than you. And he made the paintings in the tanka that were always better and better and better. But yet the other guy was a contender. He did a good job too. And then there was this enlightened master who taught tanka painting, right? Tanka painting. And he said, okay, I'm going to go around and I'm going to choose from different monasteries, different ashrams, who are the ones who can come and have my special enlightenment teachings of painting tankas. And then he went around and at that ashram he picked both of them. And then they go, and when they get to this new monastery way high up in the Himalayas, beautiful place from this great, wonderful master who's supposed to be the best of the best and who everyone has these amazing transformative, powerful, enlightening experiences working with. They get there and he first of all looks at the other guy and goes, I'm better than you, I don't like you, I've got some problem, I got a chip on my shoulder with you. The other guy had no problem with him. And then they go to the class and there's only like a dozen monks who got, you know, cherry picked from the beautiful places, the beautiful monasteries, and they're the best of the best. And he's like, I'm better than all of these guys, but I'm definitely better than this guy." And he would always comment about the guys, like, your Manjushri looks horrible, your Tara looks so terrible, you know, things like that. And he was just, he had a thing. So, every day and every moment of his practice was, yeah, he was pretty good at what he did, but he was also bothered by another guy and all the other people, but especially one guy. He was bothered. Now, whenever they completed one of their thangkas and the master would come and see them, he would look at the thangkas and he would give people advice in the first attention, oh, you may be a little bit more dark green here, you know. And he would also give them, you know, advice in the second intention, spiritually. Whenever he looked at this guy's tanka, he'd say, here's my tanka. And the master would always go, oh, just have a bad reaction, even though he painted it quite perfectly. But the master would say, you know, let go of negativity in your mind. Just let go of negativity in your mind. And this happened again and again and again and again and again for years, several years, four years. a while, he had this boiling point where he was super angry because the other guy got thumbs up by the Master. And everyone else was doing pretty good by the Master, but he saw a four-year pattern of the Master cringing when he looked at his work, saying, Oh, there's something wrong. I don't feel good. There's something in me that doesn't feel right. And he would see that his master's like, uh, is something wrong? And he's like, what is it, master? And he's like, work on, you know, being selfless and gentle. Let go of the negativity in your mind. And after a while, he finally got what that teaching meant, because he was so frustrated, thinking that he's better than everybody else, especially better than that guy. And then so frustrated and thinking he did it perfectly, the way he painted it was perfectly, that he wasn't getting beyond that before, but he got so frustrated that he had an honest moment and a moment that brought him beyond what he was looking at, a certain state of mind. And that state of mind to anyone in a museum or in the city would look at his painting and say, oh my God, what an amazing painting, perfect painting. But to the Master, the spiritual Master said, whoa, there's something there. That's all I, you know, I could say what I can say. There's something there. You got to work on it. And then he said, I'm going to get rid of my negativity like my master said. And then he let go of his negativity and he felt a great freedom and he was happy. And then in the next painting session, he very, very happy with his painting. He felt really good. He felt happy, energy flowing. And then when he showed the painting to his master, his master just smiled and said, yeah, it's really good. Maybe a little more green over here, you know. But that was the first time where he didn't go, eh. Then, he goes back and looks at his old paintings. Right after that, where his master says, this is good, he doesn't react. His master says, yeah, this is good. Here's some first attention things to improve. There's always ways to perfect your impeccability in yoga. And then he goes back to his room where he had many, many, many of his favorite paintings that were rejected by his master, but still he loved them. They were good. I did a great thing and I love it. And then he goes back and he looks at them and he's like, oh my gosh, they're horrible. When he made the Bodhisattva smiling and looking so happy, when he looked at it and he's like, oh my gosh, that Bodhisattva looks horrible, there's so much negative energy, this Bodhisattva looks like she's sad, or angry, or confused, or both, all. So, if you bring yourself to yoga, yoga will reflect the self. And you will say, you know, maybe it takes a number of years, but when you say, well, I have my evidence of what I think is right. I have something going against it. And then that's something to resolve. So, wherever you go, there you are. If you bring that willingness to resolve things, things resolve. If you bring, no I'm right, and everyone else is wrong, then that's where you're stuck with some pretty ugly bodhisattva pictures. something good or bad. It's not, is this easy or is this hard? It's not, I'm having a great time with my yoga team or I'm having a horrible time with my yoga team. Those are all in the yin and the yang of things, the ups and the downs of things. But in yoga you transcend that. When you do yoga, it's not about the circumstance of the situation, because Milarepa had a difficult circumstance. Some yogis have very difficult circumstances. A lot of yogis, they impose a difficult circumstance on themselves. I'm going to sit out here in a cave and meditate for like three years. They go, you know, who knows if food or water is going to come, but that's what I'm going to do. They impose that upon themselves. And it's not an easy time at all, but they transcend them. So when you're saying, I'm doing my yoga, but I don't have time because I've got like other demands in my life or it's hard I'm not sure really how to do it very well or I don't like my yoga mate I don't like my yoga leader or I'm a little confused as what to do these There are places where the self is kicking in and they are ruining your yoga. There's no yoga when there's a self that has such a strong voice. So when there's a self, your internal dialogue, that voice in your head saying, I don't like that, I don't like the project I'm on. Those things are the voice of the self. So it doesn't matter what circumstance you're in, whether it's good, bad or ugly, yoga is what transcends it. Yoga is a path of transcending it. And in all yogas, you time and you have to be able to transcend that hard time. So we have to be open because even if you went to heaven, if you went to heaven in the state of mind that you're in right now and you would go into heaven and you would create so much trouble in your mind and so much trouble that would come out of you that it wouldn't be heaven anymore. This reminds me of a TV show called The Good Place. I did see a couple episodes of it, like on an airplane or something, and it's kind of interesting. I didn't get all the way, you know, I don't know the whole thing and how it developed over the seasons or something, but this gal hits the heaven who wasn't supposed to be there. She got, like someone messed up her primary key with someone else. Someone else went to hell, she went to heaven or something like that. And she flipped and got to go to heaven, but she was in the good place, which is heaven. But because she had this crazy mind, she brings all of that stuff up into the dramas in that place. And if she didn't have that, she would have been in balance with that place. Everywhere has balance. And the Bodhisattva Tara, for There are many stories of Tara or Kuan Yin living and being in hell dimensions as enlightened masters. They would go there, and they're in a very difficult environment. Everything is painful and hard, pulls them down. But they wouldn't personally suffer. Yes, hell's hard, it's hot, and they'd feel the pains, and they would go through whatever pain it took. And then they would express enlightenment and liberation and help for those beings there. And their meditations were perfect. And their inner peace was perfect. So the outside circumstances don't matter. You can be in heaven or hell. You know, if you're pissed off and you go to heaven, you're like, What's with all the harps? Go over and insert, giving an angel a hard time. Hey angel, I don't like you. Income of both these details, about your life, your inclinations, your ideas, your things that you don't like about politics, and you can say, angel, you're like a Democrat, or something. We should build a wall between Earth and Heaven, or something. You can go into all sorts of ideas and things that you get caught up in in this life, and be in Heaven, and be completely unhappy. Heaven's not the answer is. Wherever you go, there you are. So if you have a little bit of pain or suffering of self right now, it's because that's where you are. And no condition's gonna change it. No amount of money, no amount of heaven, no amount of anything, a relationship, a car or whatever. Those things aren't gonna change it. Nothing's gonna change it. You have to, this is a moment to come together and see. Wherever you go, there you are. You are there. If you want to change your circumstance by getting a new job, I like that. You know, getting the wife and family, getting the big house, making the money. Whatever you want to do, it's all good. There's nothing wrong with any of that. But if you don't make yourself at peace and happiness, find peace and happiness in the self, none of those things are going to help you. So it's very important. So if you're in the most difficult places and the hardest places and you find truth in yourself, things hurt, things are painful, there's pain in life, but you don't have to suffer. Suffering is of the ego and the self. So this is Job. A mensch goes to heaven. Now, for those of you who don't know, a mensch is like a jolly good fellow in Hebrew. So for the Jewish faith, a mensch is like a saintly person. So a mensch goes to heaven and the mensch is just sitting there, smiling, very happy, kind of giggling to himself or herself. And then the angel comes over and says, hey, you look really happy. And the mensch says, I am. And then the angel says, tell me, what are you so happy about? And the mensch says, it's just this funny thing that happened. Let me tell you this joke. I mean, it's really funny. It's a joke, but this really happened. And then the mensch tells a Holocaust joke. And then the angel goes, whoa, I don't think you should make a joke about that. I mean, I don't know if that's politically correct. And also, man, I don't know, maybe that's too soon. And then the mensch is all, you don't get it? He's all, I get it, I just think it's about the Holocaust. And then the mensch says, I guess you had to be there. The mensch was in the Holocaust. And had humor. Even the angel didn't get it. So that's the truth about humor too, by the way. If you've been there, it's funny. If you've been there, it's funny. If you've been to hell, you can tell some hell jokes. Yeah, but heaven jokes are pretty good too. So it's really important what you do in your mind, whether you're in a good place or a bad place. If you're in a good place in your mind, anywhere is good. It's as good as it gets. And it's great. Now, when you find yourself in life hurting, you're like, ouch, I'm hurt. A circumstance, a situation, a person, any situation in your life where you find yourself hurt, there are always things to do. Things to do. Like, if I'm hurt, I should do this. This is how I can work a solution that's practical, that's powerful, and that's what I call suffering. So if something hurts, like there's a knife poking me, I'll say, oh, okay, let me move the knife away, maybe the hand of the person away. But I won't say, I'm angry, this person attacked me, and this person's mean and terrible. I'll deal with the thing that hurts me, but I'll never blame the person who hurt me. In fact, I'll try to help them. After I take the knife away, I'll help them up, and I'll say, hey, you want to meditate? No, absolutely. You know, I've had many times where people have been angry towards me. The ultimate anger in their mind, or difficult frustrations in their mind. And I've always resolved it with being open. And being compassionate. compassionate and trying to work a solution that works where there's a win-win for that person, myself, and the universe. So, if you find yourself in a place where you're hurt, yeah, work the problem, work the solution, do something that brings you into power and to balance. But never blame.

0:33:41
Let go of blame.

0:33:42
Blame is always looking in the mirror and pointing back. The moment you don't blame, you can deal with the situation and solution

0:33:52
in a good way. So, you know, when you're hurt, you have to do yoga for real. Not play yoga

0:33:53
or try yoga. It's yoga for real. And that means that you do things really impeccably, but you don't do things selflessly. I mean selfishly. Anything with a self, get rid of it. This or this, no self. So you have to do, you have to be real about it. You have to say, when you're doing your yoga, you have to say, ouch. You have to realize when someone bothers you with presenting a new idea, or saying I don't like your idea, or something like that, or giving you a hard time, that's not right, it should be this way. You have to really recognize where is it where the self goes. That's where the ego lies. The ego is this reaction of self that just brings consciousness into your lowest denominator of samsara, which brings it all and you don't feel good, you shake, you think lots of thoughts, yeah I'm calling you out. That's what you did. So when that happens, Don't make a decision and follow that way, because that's the way out of enlightenment. So when you're in yoga and someone gives you a hard time and you go, ooh, ooh, ooh, and you think lots of thoughts, and you're bothered and your fingers shake a little bit, well then, if you follow that way, that's the way out. When you're doing Karma Yoga, as taught by Sri Krishna, or my teacher Rama, in our special way of the time, you have to open up. And when you recognize that it hurts, pain is okay, and you can take the pain. But 90% past the pain that makes things intolerable is the ego, the self. And if that comes up, look at what's pain of the circumstance and the situation and look at what's pain of your reaction. I guarantee your reaction is 90% more of the pain and if you got rid of your reaction, there would be some pain but it would be tolerable. You'd be all okay and then when that 10% of the pain is tolerable, you have a lot more ability to look forward to what to do next, how to manage it. You have a lot of perspective how to handle it. So do yoga for real. Be honest in your heart. Be as impeccable as you can.

0:37:35
Don't fake it.

0:37:36
Do it. Try your hardest. Don't say, well, this is getting in the way of my Netflix binge time, or something like that. No. Be powerful and focused. Set the time aside. Time offset or whatever, right? Do what you got to do so that you have the time to focus on your yoga. And then if something hard comes up in your life, other people are coming in trying to talk to you, hey let's do something else. No. Set your time to do your yoga. And if it's painful to do that, then that's the pain it takes to grow. And if you are impeccable, and you're suffering from the pain of selflessness, one of the great things, even for enlightened teachers is working on karma yoga. We work impeccably but we also recognize the second we come close to self. So Buddha said in our heart an enlightened one would rather drink a bowl of molten lava than to think a thought of desire. And this goes for every aspect of self and ego. Because you will recognize after time that any thought of self brings you a horrible pain and a definitive wall that cuts you off from enlightenment. And he thought of self, oh, I'm trying to do this, but I want this. Boom, wall comes And that wall is what you created with your reaction.

0:40:05
Self.

0:40:07
I want this.

0:40:09
This is my opinion.

0:40:10
I have a strong will. I need this. I should have this. These are all places where you cut yourself off from enlightenment. You're not doing yoga. It's not good. So I'm teaching this to Shodans. All Shodans need to work on. So no opinions, no assertions of self. Because an opinion is like an elbow. Everyone's got one or two. So when you find yourself thinking, but I really think this, and I really want this. You're exerting yourself. I know that you have the best intentions. All of my advanced students, I know you have the best intentions, but you're not perfect in your yoga at all. So if you have a strong assertion, you need to start bringing it back. You need to start saying, I need to practice more selflessness. And this is an important time to do it. Now, practicing yoga for real is really good because that means that you become soft. You become, instead of a fixed condition, a fluid condition. So like in Taoism, it's the way of the water. The way of the water. It's fluid. You know, you throw a rock at the water, the knives don't cut the water. The water will split. It doesn't get cut and open. So, Yana Sensei used to teach this technique, the knife comes straight in at the heart. And he taught this thing where you're extending from the crown and whatever attack comes, you can move like you're on a string. So if someone punches you, you move with it. It hits your body a little bit, but your body moves with the force. And even if a precision knife or samurai sword comes in, this same technique works. The knife, the sword comes in and you just move with it and it brushes off. This is very important. This is the way that it is. A black belt in karate learns, and they're good and effective because of it. But a master in karate always says,

0:43:52
relax, soft.

0:43:55
They have extreme power, but they're always talking about relaxing technique. In karate, taekwondo, taekwondo, you know these what we would call physical punch and block martial arts. They say it's force against force and it's speed and strength in the beginning and that brings you to a good level where you're effective. But you want to be a master? All the masters talk about relax. And you see the old masters and they're all like, they're super powerful and there's something about their technique that is just relaxed. So some black belt's going,

0:44:43
Right?

0:44:46
And then the master's block is way more effective and powerful than the first degree of black belts. So advanced students should be moving toward mastery. Let's not do yoga the old way. The old way was a way of being a beginner, intermediate, getting towards advanced. And that's trying to figure it out but advanced students have succeeded in yoga. So you know you've done it to that level now get to the next level which is relax. Follow the way of the Tao. To do intermediate yoga is to clash and to be of strength. Go around things. Water also buoys up the support of things, like a boat, right? The ocean buoys up a boat. The ocean holds a boat. So when a boat is constructed properly, if you're water, you hold that thing up. If you're not water, a boat sinks. If all of a sudden there's no water and there's a boat in the Pacific Ocean, the boat will drop a thousand feet or more. So, we're water, not just that we're fluid with what's going on, that nothing can harm us. There's nothing we can't go around. But, for the sake of yoga, we buoy up Ananda Aina. We buoy up our yoga. And if you over-buoy, you know what happens? You sink the ship. You over buoy, then the water comes in to the boat and the boat sinks. So there's a balance. You have to be like water in all of its ways, but you can't be a freaking Tsunami. You can't take a boat out strong. We have many super powerful strong persons in this school. And if you all come together, a whole bunch of master chefs in the same kitchen, then no one's going to want way. And then the water will overflow the ship. The ship is a vessel. A vessel like Ananda Ina or a yoga project. Every vessel was created as a yoga vessel. Built, someone built it in the second intention, first intention, enough for all of you to have it as a yoga. And now it's a yoga. And when you do this yoga, are you going to support it and flow from the knives and the rocks in your way? Or do you overload it? This is what's happening for some yogas. It's being overloaded. And then the ship will sink. So even though you're like water, don't be too much water.

0:48:36
Reminds me of a really good joke.

0:48:40
So in the Northern Sea, there was this German couple out on their boat and then there was a storm and then they started taking on water and then the storm kept going and then they were taking on more water and then the storm cleared. And they realized, we took on so much water, we can't get enough out, our boats gonna sink. So they get on the radio and they say, well, you know, we're kind of in the Northern Sea, but there might be, you know, Swedes or Norwegians around, so they're like, we're not gonna just speak German, we're going to speak English. So they go on and they say, we are sinking, please help. We are sinking, please help. And then the boat keeps sinking, keeps sinking, and they keep going on, please, anyone out there, we are please help and then after a little while someone comes back and says what are you thinking about? Well we don't want to overcome a boat or to misappropriate our nomenclature or a confusion of what's what. So, I would say that this is a turning point, a turning point of realization. Look at your yoga now, right now. Look at what Throw away the past and just what happened 15 minutes ago. Throw away your ideas of what your great yoga is going to be and where it's going to take you. And just take a moment and say, where are we now? this yoga, this thing, this person in the Sangha. Because every interaction in the Sangha is in etiquette of yoga. Everything that you've ever worked on, how do you feel about it? If you say, I worked on a yoga in the past, but now I hate that yoga.

0:51:24
You got a problem.

0:51:24
I worked on a yoga in the past but I left it because I hate that yoga leader. You got a problem in your mind right now. You have to be fluid. So look, just take a moment and really see where you're at. Because this is a great thing for advanced students. See where you're at, for real. Because when I look where I'm at, I'm in a lot of difficulty. A lot of people blame me for a lot of things, a lot of students, a lot of people have acute troubles and difficulties, and they come to me. So every acute problem, do you feel like you've had a few acute problems? I've had more. And look at me. I stay here. I don't quit. I don't give up. Yeah, it's painful, but I'm not in suffering. and a heaven even beyond Hawaii. But I want to make Hawaii happen so that we can take another step together. So we all share hardships. Amongst the sangha, I've received the most blame than anyone. So if you think you're mad at your one yoga teacher, well your yoga teacher's been mad at me at least a thousand times. So, but I keep showing up, and I keep doing the job. I keep my heart open, and I'm working the solution, I'm doing the dharma. That's what we're here for. So, it's important to do yoga, to let go of the self, to recognize that yes, things hurt and things don't work out perfectly, but you've got to say, what's the dharma? What's the highest dharma? Because I could have said, well, my personal dharma is to go away and do my own thing. I could have done that twenty years ago, and it would have been like a load off of my mind, as you say. But I notice that there's a higher dharma to help all other beings, and I go through it. And even sometimes it's not pleasant. And a lot of times, many of you who have been around for a while notice, it's not good for my health. It's very difficult for me. And so, you have to recognize for your yoga leaders, if they're taking on a leadership role, they're taking on a role where they have to deal with psychic, sensitive beings. And a lot of them are advanced students. And so if you bring your intermediate garbage to them, or your big ass reaction, or your ego, you know, opinion, right, if you do that to them, you're not doing a good job. You're lowering yourself, which will lower them. Well, if they're great, they won't be lowered. But you're trying to drag them down into yourself.

0:55:23
And do it. So this is a turning point. A turning point of realization,

0:55:28
where you have an opportunity to say, I'm looking where my mind is on my job, on my yoga, on my life. It's a turning point to wake up. We are giving you this opportunity. a team of powerful living yogis. And by our example, we are leading the sangha towards enlightenment. It's by not only our impeccability, but our selflessness, by our ability to say, even though I had a completely fixed view, now I see another way. And it hurts, but I know, when I'm honest, what the dharma is. And I will follow the dharma and not my self-reaction. This is what we all need to work towards. We need to see it in our advanced students, see it in our teacher, and then we need to see it in ourselves— all of us, every one of us. Look at your yoga leaders. Instead of just looking at them because they give you a hard time, look at what they've been through and that they're still there. Ananda I know would not exist without that persistence. Persistent focus of Dharma. That's what meditation is. You want to meditate? You go, I'll meditate here until I'm pissed off or I have a thought of desire or I have some idea that pulls me off. Yoga is meditation. It is to stay with one thing long enough and make it happen. So that body has stayed with one thing long enough to make it happen, and that is yogic liberation. So you've got to do your work. You have to look at things in a bigger picture. All of you, Bodhons, Shodhons, Advanced Students, ones that are already in the Enlightenment cycle, I'm teaching to all of you. This is a chance to change things, a refresh, as we used to say, Alt F5. I've got a couple laps. This isn't very old, or maybe it's very PC. Okay. It's very PC, so I'm good. Alright, so I'd like to have one last meditation with you. I'm here tonight for you, and I'm going to give you a meditation, a transmission— nothing new— a transmission of the solid foundation of yoga, which is, be mindful in every moment of your impeccability and be questioning like it's a koan. Any moment where you feel that person, this idea, this thing, any moment of the self, recognize it as self. Don't point a blame at anyone else, because guaranteed, if Buddha was sitting there and the same person was in the same project, Buddha would not have the problem you have. Whatever you're upset about, what hurts, that's the ego, that's the self, that's the karma. And that doesn't say you're bad, that says that's your lesson to recognize, open to, accept, understand, and transcend. And then that never comes up again. So if it's been hard and difficult and the most hard, difficult, painful thing in the universe, I don't apologize for your experience. It's an honest, everyone on this call, this is an honest experience of truth, and if it hurts, accept it. If it's suffering, take it in. Do bodhicitta, examine it, live it, understand it, and for advanced students, transcend it. So if it hurts right This is the last samskara. Take it.

1:01:40
Don't go into ego.

1:01:43
Bring it into your heart with compassion or reflection or meditation, with all of our practices. Take it in. There's nothing wrong. There's nothing broken. Everything in the universe is perfect. So if you have pain, if something hurt, if it's broken and wrong, take it into your heart like Bodhisitta. Resolve it. Transcend Please sit up nice and straight. We're going to have a transcending karmic teaching. Focus So,

1:02:41
Thank you. So, so So. so so Wonderful. So most importantly, we have to look at our opportunity in this sangha together to be grateful. To be grateful for the teachings that we have. And I know it's kind of hard

1:04:28
in the beginning. Like some guy might come to you when you're like a poor person and say, hey, I'm going to make you do a lot of work. Follow me and I'm going to tell you what to do. And you'll be a millionaire. And you're like, oh, you made me shine shoes, you made me wash dishes, you made me take all my money and put it into the stock. And then after some time, you're a millionaire. And you're powerful and successful. So at the time when that person is telling you how to do it, you may be like, they're just giving me a hard time. That you got to follow them because they know what they're doing. And you should be grateful to them. When you can see that they are successful, that they've done the work, instead of saying, you want me to wash some dishes? You want me to take all my money and put it into that? You want me to take all my time and put it into that? Instead of doing that, you should recognize the powerful position that they come from and what they're affording to you. Because they don't have to. They can say, nope, not for you. I'll wait for someone else who's more excited, who really wants to do this, who doesn't have so much, well I really think my life's work is really good, or I'm really into, I'm really stuck on this thing in my life. No, no, no. This is a very high ideal that we're teaching here. So, you should be appreciative of the people who have developed that opportunity. So, I overall have created the school and I've made many opportunities available. I used to teach everything myself. Then I got another enlightened teacher who taught more. And then more advanced students who could teach more. The SC3s were able to teach at that point. And then the SC3s became powerful to teach the SC4s. Then the SC3s and SC4s can teach, and they can teach martial arts to get you a black belt. They can teach scuba to get you your master scuba diver, your dive master. They can teach so many things. They can teach perfect yoga. If your yoga leader is a ST4 or ST3, they're powerful in yoga. You shouldn't be bothered because of a difficult sensei. That sensei can give you a black belt and teach you to save your life. Be grateful for your opportunities. Be grateful for them. Because there are many senseis, dive masters and computer programming instructors who have developed themselves so that they can be great on their own and have given you an opportunity. So take off some of the opinions, self-ideas. Be grateful that if you follow this dharma, everything is going to be powerful and beautiful. Be grateful for the people who created this structure for you. Ananda-Aina would not exist if it was not for Apati. Be grateful to Apati for succeeding in yoga. Otherwise you are like, No, I was going to succeed in yoga. Well, did you yet? Because it's been a few years since they did. And they created this place. They should be honored for doing that, not a whole bunch of self-opinions, no elbows, no self-opinions and anger, negativity towards the people will give you the best thing. This is the place of our dharma, this is the place for our spiritual retreat. I was at where we're looking at putting our meditation hall. It's one of the most beautiful places I've ever seen in the world. And who's given that to us? The Apati yogis. Don't get mad at them. If you're mad at them, then you're pointing back to yourself to find your blame. And that's where you have to do your work. But to hurt these people who've given so much to get a black belt, to be an excellent yogi, to run a yoga, to get mad at them and to push back is silly. Look at where you're at, and also yoga leaders, look at where you're at. Look at your mind now. Where's your mind now? If it's in blame and self-indulgence and things like that, that's the self. If you find in the self, that's the place to recognize, observe, understand, let go, and see a higher way. This is what yoga gives you. This is what yoga gives you.

1:13:37
Thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
