0:00:00
So, there's an amazing thing in Christianity called being saved. And that means you do these horrible things, even kill people. And then you go to your priest and your priest says, this little covenant of confession. And if you confess your sins, you are released of your sins. And this is a very powerful truth. It's what Christ was explaining on his deathbed. When he was hooked up on the cross, his whole teaching, his whole mission was to say, I need to release these people who are killing me of their sins. and it became religion but in the essence of his death he had this compassionate release of karma. And the karmas of these guys, you know, killing forgive them because they're ignorant. It is a big transference of karma. It is a transference from the heaviness and the difficulty and the suffering of karma to I'll accept that karma and I will bring people to a higher dharma. So here in this place we have an ability to let go of karma. We have been working on letting go of the samskaras, being able to be elevated and free from them, is not something you can do. Though you try, and you have to try, you have to be fully to this effort. But there's a much more radical enlightened power that lifts you above the samskaras. So in the case of Jesus, if you're beating the shit out of him, stuffing him him on a cross, he is radically right there with you and he is transmuting your karmas. Because what else does he have to do? But in our school, the Kala Chakra, the Kala Chakra

0:04:26
Dimensions of

0:04:28
Enlightenment That are so high and so powerful lift you Above your karma Though you may try Though you may grasp at all these aspects of self at some point that grasping becomes useless and futile and the power of the Kala Chakra that lifts you up in the face of death, life, and anything is so much more real so this is a place of forgiveness and there is a place of forgiveness in the universe from the Christians to the Hawaiians where this place of refuge, this place of forgiveness is a place where even your most intense samskaras are not real. It's forgiven. It's given away. You can also say it's a sacrifice. You can also say it's an offering. And this is what I'd like to do tonight. To be, you know, Christians all see Jesus gave his life for our sins. He gave the ultimate offering. So we have to give the ultimate offering. We have to eternity to enlightenment to the universe we have to give away we've been working on the samskaras and many of you had so much powerful insight and freedom but we have to give away our samskaras our karmas, the self, we have to give it away in a one and final time. We're going to do that here. Jesus on the cross gave it away he gave away his life and the tremendous power of what he could have done for this world he gave it away on the cross and died and he gave it away. And we might understand it in a very simplistic way, but he gave everything for the enlightenment of others. It is the Bodhisattva ideal. It is the teachings of compassion that we've learned to even be totally at a loss, to be killed, all loss, and I give all victory. And isn't that the basic teaching of Jesus Christ? He died on the cross to give everyone the freedom of their sins. That's compassion. And even though that may come from some really twisted, weird story from the Roman Catholic Church. There's also a reality. Any story of Jesus, even if it's filled with 99% lies, is 99% lies about a Buddha. And Buddha there is a telling of truth and light. So we are not fooled. But when he was murdered on the cross tonight and to let be beat to shit and crucified and murdered in the most horrific way where everyone says you're the bad one. Let that be you. Let it all happen. Let it go. Let it be. And let it be the worst. Jesus died in the worst freaking way. And they wanted to do that to Padmasambhava and to Buddha. They wanted to murder them in the worst ways. transcendence of self. Self-preservation, ego, everything that the self wants. Doesn't want to be put on a cross and murdered. So if you've been working on the Samskaras, bring them to where Jesus was and Jesus was a fully enlightened Buddha. No blame, only compassion. Even for the people who put you on your deathbed and who hurt you and put you into the worst death. Accept your suffering of whatever it has been, whatever it's been wronged. No more karma. Accept it and accept that suffering and do good for others and wish well for others and bring enlightenment for others. That's enlightenment. The story of Jesus on the cross is a story of compassion. He wasn't bitching and complaining as anyone could could on that death cross. He knew the suffering of the people who hated him and put him there have mercy on them.

0:13:39
Maybe we should do

0:13:42
the same in the Sangha and in a safe way and in every aspect of our lives. Yeah! Jesus hurt on the cross. Pain is gonna happen. But he looked to the bright side of life. I know it's a joke, but it is God damn true. Oops, should I say God? No, but this is the truth. He was on the cross suffering and in pain and wronged and double crossed even by his best friends. And he looked to how can I create enlightenment for them not to blame them never blame someone karma is always a blame I'm hurt so it's because of that and he on his deathbed his death cross showed the way out of karma. It's very powerful. The stories we have are silly stories. Jesus died on the cross because he was happy and he wanted to free us from our sins. And I'm a sinner. I sin and I sin and I sin. But Jesus died for it. It's just ridiculous. Just ridiculous! What he did was radical. It's what an enlightened person does. And it also shows the way out of karma. And this is where we are. We are in a place of power. The place of refuge. A place that dissolves karma. This is the easy way, but it's a way where you have to bring that radical acceptance of the self to the end of the self. Jesus was killed on a cross and he died with integrity and power and love and compassion and fuck yeah! I would switch my place right now with that situation. That's the best way to do life and death. If you have some karma, this is the place to bring it tonight. This is the place to bring it tonight. And to know that it's not fucking around. Jesus died a horrible death. San Lorenzo, St. Benedict, there have been great beings of enlightenment. I'm talking western medicine here. And they were not at all stuck in the way of self, and always wished and operated and spoke to the help of others. And yet, they suffered, they had pain, they had difficulty. They had enmity. People hated them and hurt them and devised plans against them. So if someone thinks a bad thought about you and you get for it. You need to be willing to die for the Dharma rather than a reaction to someone's anger, jealousy, negativity. And if you do that, then you're on the cross. And guess what? We're all gonna die. We're all gonna... like this one demon told me one day, you're all going to be hurt, beat, tear down, ripped apart, and die. And to be It is ego grasping. But to look at Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ's example, everyone goes, in America everyone goes, Jesus was a badass, he died for our sins, and thanks, and now And now that gives me a little bit of hope on a Sunday. And then on a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, I'm an asshole. But there's power in Jesus, even in America, that that Sunday, people fall in line in etiquette. It strengthens their virtue. But we need to be... I'm not Jesus in an idea and a little bit of influence. I'm Jesus. I'm Jesus. Jesus faced the hardest pain. He got beat to shit. He got chastised, which now just means talking to your wife. Chastise means you get beaten to a hair between life and death so that we can then kill you. He got beaten crazy. If you get beaten and you're hurt and someone does you wrong, it doesn't mean that you should waver. In your final moment in life, have the Dharma on your mind. Your mind filled with light. Your mind filled with teachings. Your mind filled with compassion. Whatever we want to say, it was words of compassion. And that's what we got out of it. But, let me tell you, you are Jesus on the cross. And you are Jesus being sabotaged by one of your best friends. You are Jesus, enlightenment and the enlightened nature rises above every and guess what? It's going to be painful. But if you do the right thing, if you follow the Dharma, you elevate your spirit beyond anything that could ever limit you or hold you down. And this is the place of refuge. It's a place of letting go. It's and when we're here together on this night

0:23:35
this is an ultimate place

0:23:38
this is our time to be on the cross for all the people who hurt you, for all the people who fucked you over, for all the people who wronged you, BE ON THAT CROSS! BE ON THAT CROSS! Everyone who lied, hurt, said a bad thing about you, looked at you sideways, you don't know how they looked at you, but you got mad, any negativity, we're going to stand on that cross. In this place of refuge. We're going to be Jesus on the cross. Hurt by so many. Murdered by so many. And for so many powers and so many reasons. We're going to be Jesus on the cross. Now, Jesus, if he made it to the place of refuge, everyone would be all, what? You say you're Jesus of Nazareth? And everyone's mad at you? The Jews are mad? And then the Romans are mad and everyone's mad. Well, come here and just be here. Listen a forgiveness of refuge. This would have been a good place for us to sit with Jesus at that time. But he didn't have that place. But you do. You need to bring yourself to that cross where everybody brought you to that cross. Every karma that you ever had, those motherfuckers, those assholes, everyone that you've ever blamed, all the pain, all the... He was a victim. Mostly, number one, he was a victim. Bring that all to the cross and he transformed all the pain and being the biggest victim being murdered in a horrible way he transformed that into compassion and you need to do that too. Whatever pain and suffering and horrible shit that you've experienced in your life and every little bit of negativity you need to bring it here because those Those are your wrongs. Those are your places where you go against and hurt yourself and go against dharma. Bring it to mind and then you're free. The Hawaiians, you might have been down in the next or up in anywhere, you might have been in the next communities, you might have committed murder and they're like, you killed someone, you did something horrible and we're going to do kapu on you which is we're going to kill you but if you can run here or swim really fast once you come here you spend your time here then you go back to the village and they say because you came here you're free no bad thoughts. Oh, you killed my brother, but now you came to the place of refuge and you came back. And the place of refuge changes you. And then everybody accepted you back to the village. Because it's real. Because if you were still an asshole and you came back, they'd be all, ah, I'm so mad at this person. So we are here at a place where you can say, Father Universe, It has to happen at some point. It doesn't mean that if you've done one thing bad, that it's always going to be there. It's forgiven. This is a place of that forgiveness. And then, we have to become strong and say, but there's all these pains, all these difficulties that might make me sin again, be angry, be sad, be hurt. That's where we go on the cross. And we say, in this place, like Jesus, I accept all the hurt of the universe, the universe in every dimension. And I also take Why? Jesus was killed by this negativity and all he reflected was compassion and care for the enlightenment and the less suffering of everyone that was hurting him. So this is what we do. This is what you must do. Accept this place to take away your suffering. And also to stand up and know suffering exists. And your whole story of who caused you suffering. Your whole story of what hurt you. We stand up and we stand on the cross and let it kill us. Let your story of suffering put you on tonight. No, if you don't do this, you're full of shit. Stand up and say, just like Christ, I got prosecuted even if I had a good idea and I wanted to help, but what is the pain? What is the thing that's hurting me? What is the thing that makes me suffer? What are all the blames? Accept it and put yourself into a place where That is gonna Kill you it's gonna be done. It's everything that you've been hiding Everything that you've been scared of, everything that's been your enemy and your demon, that hits now. Puts you on a cross and you say, if that's all the horrible shit in the universe, Okay, I take it and I die. And if these have shown you something, it will bring you in awareness. Bring the focus to the heart. We're going to sit just for a few minutes. Let's begin.

0:34:14
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.

0:35:41
Alright, enough! Enough! That's enough. Now I need you to be aware of the root of this. This is not a stop meditation, hang out and try to become still. This is to understand something. And maybe you got it. And maybe you'll get it in the dream plane or tomorrow morning or somewhere before Saturday. But this is what I'm talking about. It doesn't need a lot of meditation. It needs a lot of knowing, awareness. Alright. That's good! Thank you. Alright. Alright, let's start our little walk home. Alright, let's start our little walk home.

0:37:20
Be careful on your walk home, on your way back.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
