0:00:00
All right.

0:00:03
Hello.

0:00:04
Happy solstice.

0:00:05
We're going to begin with meditation. Then we will have our solstice revelries. Okay, so sit up nice and straight. We're going to bring the focus to the navel chakra. Okay, let's begin.

0:00:20
You So So the the So So So So So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, That was funny. Over on this side of the world, the music was all, woo woo woo woo. I was like, it's good that we all know the song. Just directs us to the dimension, right? Um, probably, you know, somewhere else it was like, in India it played perfectly. But right here where we started it, it's all weird. Faster, slower, stop for a while. All right, so, happy solstice.

0:01:55
Solstice is a time of power, a very, very, very beautiful time where there's light and eternity and meditation. There's a current of light, of life, that happens at the time of the solstice. It's a magical time, a time of nature, a time of mysticism and magic. So it's a beautiful time to meditate together. It's a beautiful time to be together. Now I know that mostly we can't be together. You know, most of you are hanging out by yourselves and I had to cancel my Euro tour, right, or my tour even to California, I'm like, no winter travel because of this, what this is called, Omicron thing. It's like, it's going to be peaking, like, while I was supposed to be traveling. So I would be going airport to airport, city to city, group indoors to group indoors, and I'm like, oh no, no, can't do that. So, you know, don't worry, there will be a spring. Yeah, so this is a very beautiful time. I know that we're separate, but we're also together. So we're together in spirit. I saw this bumper sticker, it cracked me up. It said, Hermits Unite! I can just imagine these little hermits in their little caves on Zoom. So we are maybe separate, but we are Hermits Unite. So we are united in spirit. It's a very And on the solstice, that's the most important thing. You know, even if there wasn't Zoom, if everyone all over the world meditated at the same time for the solstice, or even at different times in your own time zone, there's this, there's something that transcends time and space and its spirit. We're united. We are a spiritual fellowship. So it is a very, very beautiful thing for us to just bring our attention to meditation, just bring our attention to this solstice. And when we all bring our attention to enlightenment, we all come together. So there's a very strong unity in this experience. One of my California students said, can I come to Hawaii? I said, no. Because tomorrow we're gonna go out to Kilauea in the Volcano National Park. And we're gonna be able to sit like 20 feet apart. I'll yell at everybody, hey, enlightenment! Enlightenment!

0:09:14
So, you know, and so the student's like, I really want to come.

0:09:19
If I go there, I know it's gonna be so deep and powerful and peaceful. And I said, let me tell you a joke. And so this student comes to this master and says, oh master, please take me to the realm of the highest peacefulness. And the master goes, I could, but if I take you there, there will be no peacefulness. So what you must do is find that peacefulness in your mind. Because you know, going to Kilauea is a very powerful place, it's very beautiful, there's a very amazing stillness there. But you can be there wherever you are You can be here. You can be there you can be in that beautiful Place of stillness and power in your mind, and then we're together And it also saves you a lot on like flights and hotels Okay, so This solstice has a theme. It's going beyond karma.

0:10:53
Going beyond karma.

0:10:55
Not getting to higher karmas. Not getting good karma. It's going beyond karma. And a lot of us say, is that a thing?

0:11:05
Is it possible?

0:11:06
It is, and it's important. It's an important teaching of enlightenment. So, you know, the beginning teachings are, get good karma, stop doing bad karma. This is very important. But eventually, we have to learn to go beyond karma starts with your dream. If you did a deep reflection and seeing from the last satsang, your dream is a dream beyond your karma. All dreams go beyond karma. I remember when Apati started, they had a dream. The yoga was a dream and they were like, yeah, we have this dream and then they went beyond karma. So dreams are real. Dreams are powerful. If you follow your dream, if you prosecute it, I mean if you do it all the way, you execute it. I'm not like, I'm like a judge in execution. Cause you kill the self, the self is karma. So you kill the self by executing your dream. Okay, it's weird, but it's true. If you follow your dream, wherever you're at, wherever you're at, your dream gets you higher and beyond your karma. And then you might have another dream. Even the enlightened, they get enlightened and then they have a dream. Like Buddha got enlightened and he's all, I have a dream to teach. Well, maybe I'll teach and guess what? That was a big success. So yeah, come on. Dreaming is powerful. So if you, you know, gave a little bit of reflection, had a little bit of seeing in your dream assignment, that showed you a out of karma. And I knew that, you know, I knew that that was important, like, in the last Satsang, but I didn't know how important it was until yesterday. I think it was yesterday. I was like, oh my gosh, you guys, and that's why I was like, you guys, do that thing. Like, I was like, make sure you do your assignment. It's important. You got to bring, bring your here because we are going on a Experiment we're going on a jungle voyage What's that Disney Disneyland ride Jungle Cruise, we're going on a jungle cruise beyond your karma But you have to bring your dream Because if if you don't bring your dream if you're not aware of what your dream is or if you're foggy on it, you have to be really, really strong in knowing what your dream is. Because that dream, like, I dream to be enlightened or successful yogi or black belt or just get a job at McDonald's or something, any dream gets you beyond where you're at. It breaks you out of karma. So that's what we're here for. That's what we're here for. So definitely, oh wait, I'm just hearing it. Okay. Now, all of a sudden, 40% of you figured out what your dream is to be a dreamer. To be a daydreamer? I don't know. Get out of here. But then you guys go, oh wait, there's actually something about that. There is something about that.

0:15:49
Dreaming.

0:15:50
Have a dream. I know we call it a dream. It's different than dream yoga. It's to have a vision, a higher awareness of where you want to go outside of your karma. It's a doorway. And so I wanted to prepare you with this so that we can actually go out of your karma. But we're going to go out of your karma in radical ways. But the dream is actually a good first step. It's good preparation. So it's really lovely to be with you, all of you. I think it's so amazing that we have a technology that we can connect through. Because, you know, Tibet.

0:16:53
Tibet still doesn't have it.

0:16:56
I mean, like, still need some internet access. So, I have some. So, this is a really, really strong thing, to be together, to have that dream, and to move on. So we are on a journey, and our journey is to go to a place where I call Karma is Dead. Now, a lot of my students in America might recognize what that means. Salesforce. Salesforce. Salesforce, massive, massive company, software company in America. Massive, successful, powerful, wonderful company that I really love. And AppBuddy was working super strong with them to have their success. So Salesforce is strong and Salesforce is this wonderful thing. And they started off saying, software is dead. And then they had this little sign that said software, and then this red circle and a line through it. Okay, software is dead. Because they didn't like everyone putting a little disk in their computer and working on something. They're like, you don't need that. They're like, there's this cloud. So you don't need software on your computer.

0:18:40
There's a cloud.

0:18:42
And in that cloud, it does magical things. I still don't buy it. But that's what they said. And everyone believed them, and they bought it, Salesforce, because they sold you on Salesforce. And so, you know, they were like, software is dead. And I'm like, karma is dead. So we're going to get little pins, just like Salesforce. It's just going to be karma. Karma is dead. So I'm gonna bring you to a place where there's no karma. Where there's no karma. I know it's funny because karma seems absolutely real. It seems completely real. Like I remember with my teacher, Ram Ram Pichai, a student asked, what is karma? And he said let me show you and he picked up a little I think it was like like one of the little ice-squeezer things and he just picked it up and he dropped it he said that's karma simply. That was his answer. But it's true. So karma is action but it's the result, but but what happens after that action is the next karma. It's the next action. So you can have a good action that brings you to a better action, or you could drop something and it brings you to, you gotta clean it up. So we want, we understand that the things that we do bring us higher or lower. So we want to do things that are higher but ultimately for enlightenment we have to go beyond karma, beyond the ups and downs, the yins and yangs, the ins and outs, the lefts and rights. Yeah, we have to go beyond that. So, you know, what goes up comes down? What goes up white and comes down yellow?

0:21:51
What is the number one cause of dry skin in America? Towels.

0:21:56
There's a good karma in a joke, right? It's an uplifting energy, right? But it shows you a truth. A joke shows you a truth. That's why we get to the Zen jokes. The spiritual jokes. Okay. Why did the spiritual chicken cross the road? He didn't. Because wait, let me say it. She didn't. It's not a rooster. Okay. She didn't cross the road because she realized she's already on the other side

0:22:53
Okay, why did the Zen

0:22:55
Chicken cross the road the Zen chicken didn't cross the road the road crossed the Zen chicken but the Zen chicken will have her vengeance. So jokes are good karma. They like it's that opens things. But karma says something that we all know, right? 99% of us, more than 99.9% of us on this planet know there's a law of gravity, right? I mean, how many of you guys have been up in space, right? Not me. I mean, I used to be up in space when I lived in San Francisco as a teenager. I was like spaced out. But no, I still fell on the ground. So, so gravity is a rule that so many people know. And it's the same as karma. It is a fact that, you know, an action has a result. If you fall off of something, you hit the ground, right? So gravity is a rule that everybody knows, but if you get in a rocket ship or SpaceX and you fly up high enough, you break out of gravity. It's a fact, right? And everything that 99.9% of the people on earth know, you know something different. So one of the results of enlightenment is that you can, if you decide to, you can take off, you can go into a Samadhi, you can go into a place where you break the law of karma. Karma doesn't exist there. Gravity doesn't exist in orbit. So it's possible. It's real. And it's also real when you're dealing with like hardships. Okay, so back in the time of the Buddha, I love these stories. There's this group called the Gang of Six. And they were these six monks who just caused trouble. They just caused trouble all the time. So there's this one monk who was really a good monk and just really working hard on his meditation. So they decided to just go over to him every time they saw him and just punch him in the head. So he's sitting there meditating, and then they just come up behind him and he's like, I hear people walking, but I'm just going to keep meditating. And then boom! Boom!

0:26:12
And he's like, wow!

0:26:13
Oh my god! So it hurts, made him angry, made him scared, it like, it created all these feelings in him. And then, eventually, he talked to Buddha. And they did this to him again and again and again. So anytime that he was sitting there, maybe the wind would blow and he'd be all, oh wait, they're not even here, it's just the wind, right? And so he's like, he's tripping out, he's having a hard time, he's got karma. And then he goes to the Buddha and he goes, Buddha, these guys are picking on me, and they're giving me a hard time and I'm freaking out, I can't even meditate without just being afraid and the Buddha goes, just meditate no matter what happens. And Buddha said, I also had times where I was afraid or I was hurt while I was sitting in meditation and I just sat through it no matter what. And he was like, whoa, no matter what. And then these guys came over and they punched him because that's what they did. They're like, hey, you stupid monk. Boom. They snuck up on him. They punched him. And then when they punched him, he got more energy, got more focused. And then, and then he had a Samadhi, he had this enlightened experience. And then since he was in such a high state of mind, he was gone beyond the physical. And they punched him a little bit. And then they stopped, they were all like, we can't get a rise out of this guy, let's move on. And they walked away. And he had this enlightenment experience. So powerful. So this enlightenment experience, it comes from adversity, it comes from opposition, comes from dealing with it, with dharma. And then you move and it could be bad karma, something's hurting you, you get angry, you get confused, you go through all sorts of crazy stuff, but if you follow the Dharma, you get enlightened from it. Bam. Beyond Karma. But you gotta get to the root of the matter. You have to get to where it starts. You have to be real. You gotta get for real. You have to get, yeah, to the root, like a system administrator. Got root. You have to, like, see where karma starts. Do you know where karma starts? Karma means action, so you're like, oh, shouldn't have done that. Oops, did it again. It starts in the mind. Karma starts with intention. If you can observe your intent, you're like, hmm, I have this desirous intent. I have a fear intent, averse intent. I have an angry intent. If you start to see that, and you can start to have mindfulness there and direct your awareness to brighter places, very good. And then the next thing is thoughts and feelings. You're like, oh, I start to think something, feel something. And if you start to see those thoughts and feelings and you have mindfulness, you have care, you can stop yourself from getting a whole bunch of bad karma. And so getting rid of bad karma is the first thing. It's really important. You got to stop that because that just messes you up. If you can't get if you can't stop yourself from getting bad karma, oh yeah, enlightenment is far, far, far away in a far away galaxy. So you got to stop yourself from going in a bad direction. That's step one. Because if you're making bad karma, you can't go beyond karma. So don't make bad karma.

0:30:34
And it all starts in your mind.

0:30:36
If you can see it in your mind and then deal with it in meditation and mindfulness and compassion, then you can move on to the place where you can go beyond. There's this wonderful story I read. There was, I'm gonna like change the story a little bit. Okay, so there was this Sufi master and he had all the magical Siddha powers. And the student of his for many years meditated with him, had a lot of devotion to him and said, Master, give me, I can see that you can give me the power that you have, the power to get anything I want. So give me that power because it's going to make my life better. And the Master said, I don't think it's going to make your life better, so I don't think I should give it to you but master I know it will so give it to me please please please please so the master says okay okay let me give it to you so he gives him the power to get anything that he wants so then he gets it and stands up says thank you master later I'm going to do my own thing. And he goes out and sees this little kebab stand. And he's like, hmm, I don't have any money on me, but that chicken kebab looks really good. So he goes, does his little magic. And then the guy who's making the chicken kebab puts it down, he's making another one, and he goes, hey, where'd that one go? Then he sees this other guy standing 50 feet away eating it. He goes, did that guy, no, it's impossible. And then the guy eats it. And then here's another one. Hey, where'd that one go? Eating another one. He's just like, mm, I'm going to zap all these chicken kebabs until I'm full. So he eats like six kebabs. And then the kebab guy is like, this guy's robbing me. I don't know how he's doing it from way over there, but he is absolutely robbing me. So he gets all this chicken and he goes, I'm full, I'm happy. And the kebab guy is like, oh man, this guy, I'm mad at him. Okay, then he goes on. He goes, now if I can get a kebab, he sees this rich, multimillionaire, kind of billionaire merchant guy, right? And he goes, I want all his money. And he gets it. He's like, I have all this wealth. And then the this rich merchant goes, Hey, all my stuff is over there. He's got all of it. And then that guy gets mad. And then he's like, now I'm rich, now what am I going to do? Oh, you know what? I want to be king.

0:33:46
Boom!

0:33:47
I'm king. I saw a king, I want his kingdom. Boom! So he's like, I'm king now. And then the king is like, hey. And then the last part is, he sees another kingdom and he's like, hey, that queen is hot. I want her to be my queen. Boom! Then the other king is like, her. You know, we know this what's going on. Okay, so then the ex-king gets together with the king from the other place and, you know, and also the wealthy merchant, and they go, we're coming after this guy. But then, whenever they catch him, he just goes, I wish I was away. I wish I got away from these guys. And they can't get him. Okay, then, the chicken guy comes over. And they didn't listen to him because he's just a chicken guy. But he's all like, I have this special lawsuit, like a rope, that you throw around chickens. It was blessed by a Sufi mystical master so that the chickens couldn't get away. So why don't we use this on this guy? So they do. So they go over, put this chicken lasso on him, and he goes, I wish I was away. And he They put him on a pyre of wood and they light it. Then it's burning and he's about to burn to death and he goes, Oh my god, this is horrible. I used all these powers terribly. I wish I never had these powers. And then all of a sudden, poof! He's sitting there in the first conversation with that mystical master, the mystical master was like, see I told you it wouldn't work that well for you. It was all in his mind. So if you could go through things in your mind, you can go through the karmas and see where it leads you down. A bad thought, a thought of desire, it leads you down and if you play that out it will bring you to be burned I don't know here or something it will it will not be pleasant you know I always refer to this Buddha said to think you know if an enlightened person would think a thought of desire it would be more painful than drinking a bowl of molten lava and that would have to be some bowl titanium or something right?

0:36:35
You're like, I got a bowl of molten lava.

0:36:40
Buddha said that. So yeah, so you could play out in your mind the karmas by thinking them through. But if you follow self-karma from the mind to action, to speech, to energy, to emotion, if you are mindful and direct your mind and intent towards dharma, you save yourself from a lot of suffering, a lot of bad karma. So, karma constructs your awareness field. So, an awareness field is what you're aware of. Now, I mean, everybody's not aware of everything. Everyone has blind spots. Everyone has things that they're interested in, they focus on more. Everybody has a certain view of the world. Karma creates an overlay, might cover things up and make everything shadier, darker, heavier. It might be like one of those fun house mirrors where you're like, oh, am I that tall? Am I weird looking? I'm a giraffe? Yeah, so, karma really shapes the way that you see the world. So, it's a very, very powerful thing because when you're stuck in that karma, you really see things and you think the world is exactly like that and only that way. But as a Buddhist mystic, we, through meditation, mindfulness, and through these times of power, we get different views, different descriptions of life. We wipe away the extraneous material of karma in our awareness field. So we're going to do that. We're going to bring our mind, we're going to bring our attention to our awareness. This is a very funny thing. We're going to bring our attention, what we can think and focus on, to the way that you see life.

0:39:16
Now, I know this sounds strange,

0:39:18
but they said this in Zen as well. So, Dojin Zenji, great famous Zen master, said, Zen is bringing your mind, pointing at your mind, seeing the truth in your mind and becoming enlightened. It is directing your attention to your mind. He said pointing to your mind. Seeing the truth and becoming enlightened. So we're going to do an exercise where we bring our attention to our awareness. Like you say, usually you just kind of like are aware, but you go, wait, what am I aware

0:40:08
of?

0:40:09
What's my consciousness? What am I, what's my attention? What do I perceive? What's my perception of life? We're going to bring attention to your awareness of life. And this is pointing at your mind to see a truth beyond your karma. So I'd like you to sit up, bring focus to the third eye, and we're going to sit for one song with this intention to be aware of our awareness and to also move on beyond it.

0:40:46
Okay, let's begin. Okay, let's begin so Thank you. the the the the so so so so so you And karma is just a big pain in the ass. Right? It's like it just keeps messing with you. So karma kind of gets you in this cycle where everything that you do is trouble. So it's like someone throws an egg to you, so you catch it. Then they throw another egg. And you drop one egg, you catch the other one.

0:43:35
And you're like, oops! So you like made bad karma to try to not make bad karma. And then they just keep throwing eggs. So it's kind of like this endless cycle. You're like, oh! You're like, I'm going to try to be like Avalokiteshvara so I can catch juggling. So, or you know, karma comes out of nowhere. Like there was this king during the Mahabharata and he lost a lot of sons in the war and he goes over to Krishna and he goes, it's because of your karma from past lives. And the king goes, I remember my past life and I didn't do anything bad. He goes, no, it was before that. He goes, I remember the one before and the one before and the one before. He remembered like 10 past lives. And he's like, no, I was a good person. He goes, well, I'm talking about a thousand lifetimes ago, you really screwed up and now you're paying for it. So karma, you know, it's the gift that keeps on giving. Like you get some karma from way, way back that eventually dumps on you. It's true. So it's like, oh, oh my gosh. So one, karma keeps coming. Two, there's karmas you don't even know about, they jump on you and you're like oh my gosh. So what do you do? It's so difficult. Well there's something called penance and there's definite ways to work off that karma. But that's like the slow path. You know, there was a story of Gandhi and the Hindus and the Muslims were having some fights He had his son got killed. So he got mad. So he killed a Muslim's son and then he was like then he goes over to Gandhi he goes I feel horrible and He's like I feel bad because my son was killed and I feel bad because I you know You know killed a Muslim son. So he's like How you know like I know I have bad karma. What do I do? And Gandhi was like, oh, I know something That'll fix that. You've got to take an orphaned Muslim and raise him as a Muslim, and that'll burn off that karma, which is actually, Gandhi was right. That would actually kind of burn off that karma. And that just takes about 20 years. And then there was another story, there's a very advanced, he was also enlightened, Zen monk in China, and there was a greater Zen master. The Zen master went away and left him in charge

0:50:15
at the monastery.

0:50:16
And then there was this one monk who was just, seemed like he was just off, you know, like he didn't do his chores, he wouldn't show up for everything, like in Zen monastery you show up on time and you do everything in a very regimented way, and he just wouldn't do it. He would do whatever he felt like doing. And so, the, and the reason why was because he was actually going into Samadhi. So he was like going into really high states, and he was just like, I can't even get up to, you know, go clean the kitchen or even show up to the morning meditation. He was really, really going through these really high states. But this Zen monk saw him and just thought he was being lazy and silly and that he didn't want to participate. So he said, you're out of here. He kicked him out. And then Zen monk is all going through the enlightenment cycle, all these high states of mind, and then just like wanders into a bunch of thieves and then he gets killed. Because he, you know, he needed the support of a monastery and a teacher. Then the Zen master comes back and says, Hey, where's that guy? He's like, I kicked him out. And he died.

0:51:38
Like it is.

0:51:39
And then the Zen master goes, you were wrong, that guy was about to become the next Buddha and you just totally screwed up. So now, this was in China, he's like, you have to go. And he said, I'm sending you to Japan, you gotta go to Japan, you gotta go to this region where nobody has Zen, you gotta make Zen, and you gotta make 10 enlightened Zen masters. And he's all like, I gotta leave. Get the hell out of here. I'll put you through that wall. And then put him through the monastery wall. He went to Japan and he fulfilled his quest, but it took him 30 years. So penance, fixing bad karma takes a long time sometimes. And that's if you can do it in one lifetime. Sometimes you need to get dumped on for several lifetimes. So penance is a thing though. It's a way through. But it's not enough. I mean, like, if you burn off a bad karma, you're not all of a sudden elevated or happy. You just burned off a bad karma. It's like if you robbed a You rob the bank and you go to prison for 20 years. When you get out of prison, you're like, am I happier? I mean, I paid off my debt to society. I paid off my karma, but I come out of prison, I had a bad experience going through it. And I'm just not jolly about life anymore. I mean, usually, right, people just come out and they go, what am I going to do now? So yeah, just burning off that karma isn't the thing, right? We have to have elevated experiences, spiritual experiences. Because also getting good karma is also binding. If you get good karma, it's great, it's wonderful, but it also completely gets you stuck in the world, gets you stuck in illusion, in the finite reality. So it's not necessarily spiritual. So there was this guy, he was a kind of a poor person growing up. And then he was like, I really, really want to succeed in being a merchant. And then he gave a lot of food to the Buddhist monks and things like that. And he had one-on-ones with Buddha when Buddha was in town. And Buddha was like, very good. Like you've taken the teachings, you've made good karma. Then he says, it's not enough. I want something more.

0:54:24
It's like, what do you want?

0:54:25
He's like, I want a perfect wife. And Buddha talked about the Dharma and he resonated with that. And then somehow from the Dharma, he found a wife that was really wonderful. They had a beautiful relationship, just totally supportive, amazing. And then so he was all happy about that. He goes to the Buddha, he goes, Oh my gosh, you know, this is this is so amazing. But it goes, this very good karma. Very good karma. Then a little while later, he said, I need something more. I guess I know what I need to have the perfect children. So he has the perfect children. He's like really high beings that are born to him. And they're really great kids. He's like, perfect children. Yes. Wonderful. And they are the perfect children. And he's like, yeah, I'm so happy now. Got my business, got my wife, got my kids. I was like, yeah. Then he goes, it's not enough. You need more. So then finally, he says, you know what the next thing is? I need to become a monk. He's like, you know, did the business, did the wife, did the family, and now I need to be a monk because now I know that enlightenment is the best thing. And Buddha says, no. Because you're gonna do the same thing with spirituality. You're gonna get in, you're gonna like get somewhere, and then you'll get good karma and then it will limit you from enlightenment. So he said, take all the teachings and just live in your life and take all those teachings and go beyond karma. Because if he had become a Buddhist monk, he would meditate, he'd get somewhere in his head and then he'd be like, I'm cool, I like it, and then he'd be all, Buddhism is not enough, spirituality is not enough, enlightenment is not enough. He'd still be at a place where he gets good karma and not beyond karma. So he went back into his regular life, he did the Buddhist teachings, and he was one of the lay people who became enlightened. He didn't go into just karma, karma, karma. He was in his karma and he went beyond his karma. So good karma is not the point either because good karma also is it creates dissatisfaction. So you have to gain wisdom through your experience of life and karma. Because if you're just looking at information, you're like, if you're just reading what's going on, you're in karma. You're like, this is what's happening, this is what's happening, this is what's happening. You're in karma, so you know what's going on, but it's not elevating. So you need to be able to look at what's going on in karma, and you need to elevate yourself, you need to gain wisdom and insight from what's going on in your karma. This is what we do. It's kind of like, reminds me of like when someone goes to their doctor, right? And they're like, doctor, and the doctor is, let's say a good doctor who has insight, wisdom about healing. And they say, doctor, I got this spots and itchy things and bumps on my skin. And I went to WebMD, I Googled everything. And I know what I got. I diagnosed myself, this is what I got. And then there's this like, you know, there's this injection that you can give me, like these steroids, and it will fix it. So I already figured out everything. I printed it all out. Here you go. This is what I got. Let me show you all the information. And here's what I want you to do to fix me. Because the information's out there on Google. And the doctor could say, read that, look at it, and the doctor could say, well, that would be a rash decision. The doctor could also just say, you know what, you're allergic to strawberries, stop eating them, it'll all go away. You don't need to get all this shots and do all these things that are going to mess you up. You know, so when, when there's a lot of information out That's karma, but what do you draw from that information? You need to see the forest and not just the trees. Or maybe the ghost behind the tree in the forest. I don't know. So yeah, but you need to gain wisdom from experiences of karma. You need to be able to see what's going on and see more. So we're going to do another meditation, another focus on the third eye. And this is a song that I wrote with Mudra. It's a really good song. I really like the dimensions of the song. It's a song where there are two really beautiful dimensions. One is a blue dimension and the other is a gold dimension. And it's like there's the blue and the gold. And so I don't know how to describe it, but blue dimensions are very high astral dimensions and gold are very high causal dimensions. And this is where there's a blue and a gold together. So it gives you some seeing of the finite and infinite. So it's a place where you can have some awareness of information and eternity. So I'd like to sit with you for this song, Focusing on the Third Eye. And I'd like you to just be open to this experience of the blue and the gold dimension. So sit up nice and straight, focus on the third eye, and let's begin. you

1:01:08
the the the the the the the so Thank you. the the the the Thank you. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. you It's so important to have insight into what's happening in your karma because it brings you out of karma. Because with those blind spots, you don't see what you're creating.

1:03:56
You're doing things that you're unaware of. So a lot of the limiting karmas that people create come from being unconscious, not knowing what they're doing. Doing things with all sorts of intentions and feelings and energies and words and actions, that they're just not aware that they're doing something that's that creates karma that binds them. So they're like where's this come from? And it's like it comes from you. So you have to take responsibility. So something happens and they go oh my gosh it's another person. No, it's you. So I'll give you an analogy. So you're walking around, got a coconut, I mean, we're in Hawaii. So you got a coconut, you throw it up in the air, you know, like, it just doesn't come down. Well, cool. I threw it way high. You get another coconut, throw it up in the air, doesn't come down. You're all cool. You start throwing coconuts up in the air. And then, then you're walking around one day later and a coconut drops down, hits you on the head and you forgot that you threw a coconut. And you're like, and also throwing the coconut, you didn't know what was going to happen after. It comes down, hits you on the head and you're like, who threw a coconut at me? That's what everyone does, man, they throw coconuts. It means that they're doing things that they're not conscious of what the results are, and then when it comes and gets them, then they think they're trying to blame someone else. It's funny. So we have to take responsibility.

1:08:49
And karma is not a cop-out.

1:08:49
It's not like, oh, this bad thing happened to me just because it's my karma. No, you did it. You threw that fricking coconut. So when the karmas come up, you have to accept them as you did it. And that's okay. Because karmas are also very negotiable. You can do lots of different things. You've got to deal with what happens, but you can deal with the good. Like that coconut could be coming, you can go, oh, and catch it. Go, I got a coconut. Throw up in the air again. Or maybe this time you decide to have coconut water, coconut milk. So, you know, so there's a lot of different things that you can do with karmas. Even the worst bad karmas, you can negotiate with the universe what you wanna get out of it. I mean, you can do different things. Change it up, you know, it doesn't have to be like, what we call bad karma doesn't have to be bad. It can be different. Okay, so, you know, get on this airplane, gonna fly somewhere, go out onto the tarmac, we're about to take off, and then we go back to the gate. And then we're just sitting there for an hour. And then finally, a flight attendant says, we're sorry for the delay. But when we got out, right about to take off, the pilot noticed that one of the, there was a problem, like heard kind of a problem in one of the engines. So we came back, we had to wait for a while, took about an hour to get another pilot. It's a real situation and there's different ways to work with it. Another pilot might not have a problem.

1:11:08
I'm like, this reminds me of my airplane jokes.

1:11:13
I got another one. So Sweden, and Finland, Denmark, and Norway. They, they started putting barcodes on their on the door of the airplane, so that they can keep track of when they take off and when they come back, you know when they, you know, embark and embark precisely on time. So they were like, okay, we want to know exactly when something's taking off, when it's getting back, and all they had to do was Scandinavian. And then my old airplane jokes. You know, I don't like to tell airplane jokes because usually it goes way over everyone's head. Or it's Boeing.

1:12:01
All right, I'm done with my airplane jokes.

1:12:04
It's like you need to tell those things, it's funny to me. So let's say you have an illness, right? If you have an illness, you can just be like, I feel sick, I'm horrible, and just sit there and suffer. have a good mental attitude, understand your illness, learn from it. You could have an illness and then all of a sudden discover the Dharma. You could advise your death, you could gain wisdom from an illness. That's something that usually causes suffering and misery and brings consciousness and attention lower. But from being prompted with the bad karma of an illness, it can also get you to wake up your spirit. So you could take it in a different way. That's how I say negotiating karma. You've got to deal with the situation. It's going to happen, but you can bring it into a bigger, more beautiful view. You can also change karma completely. So this is where we're headed with our our consideration of this solstice day. We are looking at how you can, yeah, change, negotiate, and totally go beyond karma. But you can change karma. So someone might have really bad karma and then if they bring their mind to a certain state of mind, certain awareness, they could totally completely change that karma. And it might be something like illness. So there was this woman, Christina Carr, she was like 28 years old and she was diagnosed with stage 4 cancer and inoperable. She was like, they're like, oh, you got like six months to live. And then she, you know, was like, oh, well, I'm gonna heal myself. And they were like, yeah, you're gonna die. And then she, you know, she read this medical medium book. So medical medium is this, this healer. He just gives you lots of like, you know, like, considerations of how your diet can heal you. And he's really good. I follow, I follow him and do his, his, you know, recipes and stuff like that, cleanses and things like that. It's really good. So So she read one of his books and she followed his program and then she completely healed herself and the doctors were like, oh my gosh, what happened? Then she wrote a book about it. It's called Crazy Sexy Cancer Survivor. But she just said, whoa, I'm really sick and I'm going to totally focus on changing everything in my life to heal. And she was able to do it. She followed somebody who knew what he was talking about, and then she was able to change her karma. She changed her karma by bringing her attention up in a constructive way that aligned with the Dharma. So, you can change your karma, any karma that you have, anything that you say, I have a dissatisfaction, I don't like this situation, you can change it by bringing a higher level of attention. So even if it's like, you know, stage four cancer, you could do it, you could focus and change it. But it also might be, I don't have a good job I'm gonna change my job that's a bad karma that I'm in bringing your attention up you can do it so any aspect of your life my meditations bad bring your attention up any aspect of your life if you bring a higher attention you can change it you can change your karma now we have a Buddhist secret for changing karma. It is called absorption. It is to be absorbed. Absorbed in the moment. Absorbed in anything. Absorbed in what we're doing. Absorbed in eternity. Absorbed. It's a funny thing. It's called being absorbed. And what that is, it's taking any partiality of existence and bringing it into one. It is taking yin and yang and into one, creating unity, Tai Chi. It's taking any point where you are, any place that you're at in existence, and bringing it into one with all other things. We primarily do this through yoga and meditation. These are the two powerful practices that bring us into this condition called absorption. And in yoga, we act, we work. And through action and work, like we've talked about in yoga before, you burn off bad karma, but you also elevate your karma. It's very, very important to do. Otherwise, you tend to have so many heavy karmas that even your meditations aren't strong enough. So you have to do yoga, you have to burn off bad karma, and you have to develop and grow into greater, higher karmas. Now I have to say, you know, in my sangha, App Buddy did that. App Buddy was a yoga that started and went through lots of hardships, all the karmas, every karma, and then burnt off bad karma and went to a very high karma. But that karma changed the whole Sangha. It elevated the school completely because it was true yoga and it brought the advanced teachings, which then, you know, many people became arhants and it opens the door for many more to become arhants. So it is by doing yoga, you gotta do yoga. I mean, I was saying this like 20 years ago. I was like, you've gotta do yoga. And they're like, really? I'm like, yeah, it's the most important thing. And then eventually I did it. And then it did, it elevated the school through working. So it is very important to do yoga. I remember I had a very powerful experience just in job yoga. So, I was working at AIG in New York, and I was the database guy, and I had to take care of it and all that stuff. But it was like 1400 tables. And it was, I just knew it all. I designed it, I knew, I had to figure it all out and had to program it and all that stuff. And then the developers had to come to me and say, wait, where do I get this information? And I'm like, oh, this table, this table, this table. No, oh, okay, thanks. Because they were like, there's so many tables. What do I have, what do I do? Anyway, and they were like, wow, you just know that off the top of your head and I'm like, yeah, you know, kind of design this thing and just knew it more and more. And then I remember one night I was working there really late. And I was looking at the data model of these 1400 tables, where I could see all the tables at once where I couldn't read anything, but I knew every table. Every table was in my mind. It was like this really deep absorption into my yoga. And then I had this really like powerful experience. Every table, I was aware of them and their relationships. And then I was like, wow, it was like a really high experience. So, these are the kinds of things that we experience through. When you work really hard in yoga, you break past certain barriers. Sometimes it's fear, sometimes it's technical excellence, sometimes it's developing power, but you break your limiting karmas by doing yoga. And then there's meditation. And meditation is the most essential practice. Meditation is where you stop thought, you still your mind. Your mind is going karma, karma, karma, karma, karma, karma. And then you go, let me just stop for a minute and give all of that mental activity a break, that karma of the mind a break. And then when you slow it down and give a break, then your mind opens. There's lots of light and all the small karmic thinking just dissolves. And then there's the mind beyond karma. So, these two practices of yoga and meditation, when they come together, they create this experience of absorption. To be absorbed is to be in union. And you can be in union at any point. Wherever you are, whatever you're doing, you could be absorbed in the moment. You could be absorbed in your meditation, absorbed in your work. And when you're in absorption, you are absorbed in dharma. And when you're absorbed in dharma, there's no karma. There's no karma there. Karma is dead.

1:22:46
Karma is really not dead,

1:22:47
it just smells like it. No, karma is a lower experience, but the thing is that when you're absorbed, you're in a higher experience. And then, when you know that, when you exist in that place, then you always know a way out. There's always a freedom. You can always extricate yourself from any karmic condition. That's what enlightenment is. So I'd like to conclude with another meditation. Again on the third eye. And this is where I'd like you to go into the light and to be absorbed. Absorbed in the moment, absorbed in the music, absorbed in the light, where you see yourself dissolve in the light and become the light. So, focus the

1:23:59
the the the the the the the the the the the you so the the the the Wonderful. meditating with you and being with you on the solstice, during the time of the solstice, very beautiful, the actual solstice transit. And we are together and

1:26:23
sometimes we say, who are these people? But I remember when my teacher was talking about helping his students and loyalty, he said, you know, he's like, I just deal in every life, I just deal with whatever cards I'm

1:28:18
dealt.

1:28:19
But he's like, and he was referring to us, and he's like, these are pretty bad hand. But he said, but I am loyal to every card and I can make every card, any card win or every hand win. So you look at the people around you and yeah, maybe you got some twos and threes. But they could be part of a winning hand if you play right and so we do the best for each other we always play right because you could bluff your way to enlightenment

1:28:59
any hand can win because any hand is enlightenment actually

1:29:02
and so that two and a three, but you can win with any hand. So with each other, you know, start seeing those twos and threes as kings and aces and appreciate each other. It's a really important part of this beautiful unity at this time of the solstice. So thank you so much.

1:29:42
All right, now we're gonna take a 10 minute break

1:29:45
and then we'll come back and then we have a meeting with showdowns. So showdowns only. So showdowns only. Thank you all so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
