0:00:00
Alright, hello. Welcome. Alright, so we're going to begin the Master Track Yoga Teachings. Yay. So we, sorry we're a little bit late, we had to make sure all the right people were on the call. So we're going to begin with meditation. So sit up nice and straight and we are going to go ahead and get started.

0:00:55
So So Oh So so So So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, You All right, so yoga is the fast path to enlightenment. So yoga is something that makes your spiritual practice meet reality.

0:05:40
So you can sit around meditating, and meditating is good. However, if you just meditate, or if you just do mental practices that aren't connected with the physical world, then you can kind of get into, you can kind of get into dimensions of the mind that are very, very high and lofty, but they're not really engaged with reality. So, when you do yoga, we do karma yoga, not hop yoga. Karma yoga is the practice that has action. Karma means action. So it's a practice of action, spiritual practice, where you take actions, actions in the physical world, and then you're able to see that these actions in the physical world are very powerful, very balancing. So this is something that helps you to move ahead on the So, you know, yoga is a cornerstone of our Buddhist practice. So we don't just meditate, we don't just practice mindfulness, we also bring these practices into our lives through projects. We call them yoga projects. And these are projects that have, you know, building a business, or some real reality building a service for the community, for the world, creating a product that works. So we're working on developing these things that are useful, that have grounding in the world. You can see if it works or it doesn't work. And if it works, then there's something right about the actions that you're taking. And if it doesn't work, then there's something to kind of correct in the actions that you're taking. So if your meditation is strong, then your yoga should be strong. So this is something that we develop in our Buddhist practice. Meditation is the foundation of all spiritual practice, but then we also take action. We put it into work. If our mind is strong, we're able to develop something in our yoga practice. So yoga is certain observations, principles of understanding, practices that we do. So along with meditation and mindfulness and compassion, we have certain ways that we engage in the first attention and the second attention to do a project, to build a business. And when we engage in these observations, they show us new things, different dimensions. The dimensions of building a business for someone who can be very successful in building a business and have no spiritual dimensions to it. But we actually use it as a way to develop our minds. And so there's spiritual considerations in the way that we develop businesses. So there's these observations, there's practices, there's insights that draw from our meditation, that draw from our mindfulness, that draw from our compassion, and we bring it out into this yoga, karma yoga, this yoga of action, yoga projects where we develop businesses. And by doing this, by marrying our meditation and our business development through yoga, we're able to create really powerful experiences of business success and also enlightenment. So this is one of the great things about it. Through these observances, we can do things that are kind of special and magical that help you to be successful in your business faster. And it also is the fast path to enlightenment. So these observations of yoga are very, very, very special that way. So this master goes over to a student with two horses. And he says, all right, here's two horses, and you have to know which one is which, because you're gonna have to sell one of the horses at the market, and then you're gonna get a lot of money. But you have to know which one is which, because it's gonna be one of the horses, not the other one. If you sell the wrong horse, you're not gonna get the money. So the student's like, okay, how am I gonna tell these horses apart? And so the student was looking at the horses, looking at the mane, looking at the ears, looking at the tail, and it's like, huh, they just look the same. So finally, the student got a ruler and was able to measure the horses, and then was able to tell that the white one was four inches longer than the black one. In Buddhism you get these special tools so that you can tell different things, different observations about how to do things so that you can be successful. So in Buddhism we practice yoga because yoga is accessible. It has to do with our world and our lives. So if your Buddhism was to read some old book or memorize some sutra and do chanting, that's okay, and that's good, but it doesn't have to do with your real life. So it's kind of just some weird practice that you gain some insight from. But when you do yoga, yoga has to do with the real world and what's going on right now in your life. So it's accessible that way. So if you're going to be building a business, it has to do with the real world, the market conditions, what's happening now. So when you bring your mind to what's going on right now, it unlocks enlightenment in the mind. If you're just kind of reflecting on some interesting words and memorizing some Buddhist talk or some sutra or something like that, then it's a mental activity. But the yoga of action is action here, right now. It brings it into It's practical in that way. So there was once a woodcutter and he really wanted to do meditation. He really wanted to become a monk or at least a lay practitioner and have time to meditate and practice. But he was very, very busy. He had to cut wood 10 hours a day because he had a family and he had to feed them. And all he knew was woodcutting. So one day he talked to the master and he said, I would really love to become a monk. I would really love to have time to meditate. But I have this family and I have to provide for them and all I know is woodcutting. So the master gave him a mantra and he said, every time you swing your axe to cut the wood, say this mantra. Every time, say this mantra. Say it with devotion. Say it with power. And every time you do that, it is meditation. It is spiritual practice. So he was like, oh, thank you, Master. This is really great. he started to practice a mantra with every strike. And practiced it, practiced it, and it became for him meditation. His act of cutting wood became meditation. He gained stillness of mind, he gained insight and power. And on the occasions where he would be able to go sometimes to the lay teachings in the temple, the master would talk about the Dharma and then he would call upon the woodcutter for his insights. And people are like, why is he calling upon the woodcutter? This guy hardly ever comes to class. But then the woodcutter would speak and then he would have these powerful insights. Because his whole life became meditation. His whole life became this practice. It's yoga. So when we're doing yoga, we're working on a business, we're working on service, building a product, but we're doing it in a way where it's meditation, where it's compassion, where it's mindfulness. And so all of that work becomes this powerful focal point of spiritual attention. So, it's a very powerful thing. And in this course, you gain this ability to see your mind in this work. And you have, you know, master yogis, teachers, who show you your mind in the work. They show you where there's congestion of energy. They show you where there's deficient attention and they show you this in your work. So the basics of Karma Yoga is that anything that you do shows you your mind. So if you're going to arrange flowers, the way that you arrange flowers shows you your mind. The way that you would do anything, wash a car, would show you your mind. So if you have a very clear mind, you wash the car perfectly. If you have a confused mind, you might miss a spot, or you might take too long, or you might leave too much soap on it, or something like that. And then you have a sticky, soapy car that picks up dirt while you drive. You're like, I thought I cleaned my car. It's dirty. Because you didn't wipe off the soap. Things like that. Any action that you do, any doing, any action shows you your mind. So my teacher, when he was beginning to teach us yoga, he said, I could have you pile a bunch of sticks together. Just pile it up any way you want, and I'll show you your mind. I'll show you where you have deficiency of attention. I'll show you where you have confusion. In a pile of sticks. So any action, if you take it as your practice, you can look at your mind and see in that action, see in that practice, how things are stuck, where things are missing, and then you can work on it. And then you have the perfect pile of sticks, and then there's the perfect action of mind. So what we come to find is what my teacher called pressure points. So even if it's in a pile of sticks, there's places where something is sore, something's out of place in that pile of sticks. And then when you can fix that place where something's sore or something's out of place, then there's a flow of energy. And it could be in a pile of sticks. Pile of sticks, oh look, there's something wrong there. And you're all, oh man, I can't believe I piled my sticks wrong. And then you fix it and you go, oh, now it's perfect. And there's a flow of energy. I know it sounds funny, but it's true. Could be flowers. Like you just make that one little adjustment, and then all of a sudden it's perfect and there's a good energy when you have the perfection of action. So there's these places that are called pressure points. And the pressure points is where you're stuck. You have defilements of attention. Something is stuck in the way that you perceive, in the way that you act. So when you can see that, understand that, and fix it, then there's a release, and there's a freedom, and there's a good energy. So I remember there was a student who was a project manager. And this student was very angry on the project, was very frustrated with people, very upset, angry, yelled at people, had like felt all bothered by people all the time. So it was like, oh gosh, my job is to manage this project, but I'm so frustrated, and I'm so bothered, so angry, and these people are like doing everything wrong. All these people doing all the wrong things. So this person was all upset. And then my teacher said, okay, so here's the defilement you have. And it's a very common one. A lot of managers are angry and grumpy. And my teacher said it's because they have fear. So the defilement is fear. So my teacher said, when you start to get angry or frustrated with other people ask yourself what are you afraid of and

0:20:07
then

0:20:09
you know the the student focused on it and worked on it and and and usually what you're afraid of is some kind of losing control So the student would go into a meeting get really mad because people are doing things the way that, you know, it's late, it's not right. It's, you know, all these things. And then the student would reflect on this. What am I afraid of here? I'm afraid that the project's not gonna get done on time. I'm afraid that it's not gonna have the right quality. And went through the fears, understood the fears, and in understanding the fear was accepting of the situation and didn't have to be angry. Just, you know, realize that that anger and pointing blame was coming, was that outward expression of I'm not controlling things the way I want to, the way I think it should be, and so now I have to get mad at other people. But once you understand, I have fear. I'm worried about this. I'm not working. Then you can say, okay, I accept that. And then the student was able to work a solution that helped things without getting angry. So then the student became a very, very good manager because 90% of his energy wasn't going into reaction and anger. He was able to be still, understanding, see the bigger picture, more balanced, and then was able to be a more successful manager. So it shows you your mind, your work, your yoga, shows you your mind and you're more capable of dealing with the peace of mind inside and also in the world. If you just meditate, you might be missing something, you might have blind spots, it might be an unintegrated spiritual attention. So, you know, very often we think, oh, it's really cute. This monk is meditating very deeply and he's ridiculous in the world because he doesn't know what the heck's going on, right? He's like completely clueless in dealing with the world and does funny things. And my teacher would say, that monk is not balanced. That monk is in a mental world. If you go in your spiritual mental world, you could be often some like, oops, sorry, you could be off in la-la land, right, saying that you're meditating perfectly, experiencing all sorts of bliss and ecstasy, and then you walk out in the street, don't look both ways, and get hit by a car, right? There's something missing. So it's very important that you actually focus on the physical world. Perfect action. And we work on this in our projects, yoga projects. This is a focal point of spiritual practice where you can have great advancement. mental development. So when you do yoga, you start to gain great mental powers. So I remember when I was a computer programmer, I was starting to become more aware. My mind would grow because I was focusing on a project. I would start to see new things, understand things in different ways. And I would be able to hold more in my mind than I was able to before. So I remember one occasion where I was a data architect. They used to just have data architects, but I was designing an insurance system for AIG, too big to fail. And it was this huge database. I mean, there was like 1200 tables and I was designing all of it and I had to work with the programmers and show them where to get the data and explain it to people and all that stuff. And so I remember sitting there, working late night once, and I realized that every table, the whole database was in my mind. I could hold the entire database in my mind. I was like, I know where all the data is. And it was a real powerful realization. And it was something that I could... It broke a dimension of just I could think of this or that, or maybe this and that and a couple other things to a whole new level of Understanding and I was like wow that's amazing so When you're doing yoga, you know, sometimes it's something technological where you have a bigger awareness sometimes it's in terms of Management where you have insight sometimes it's in terms of marketing and sales, where you have, I know how to do this, a power, a flow. It's something where it's impossible at first, and then you just work at it, and then all of a sudden it unravels. And there's a higher dimension of power. Something that was narrow or limited becomes completely open. So there's mental development when you focus on your work. And it goes from a certain dimension of physicality and it opens dimensions. You have insight, you have power, you have awarenesses that are beyond just the physical aspect of the business. Like all of a sudden you're like, I have this insight, I know how to do this, I know how to sell this, I know which place in the market this product should be or how the service will really help people. So you start to have like deep and powerful insights that go beyond the normal attention of the mind. So it's very, very powerful. You develop. Now, you also, you do this amazing thing. Now, in yoga, you experience impermanence. So you have this idea, I'm going to do this. And then you start doing it, and then it doesn't work out exactly right. So you have to change things or, you know, it's like, all right, I have an idea, I'm going to start doing it and then you say oh the market tells me this the market tells me that customer tells me this or you're trying to build a product and you go oh it doesn't work the way I thought it would I have to try something different. So as you start to take action in yoga you'll notice that you have to change that you have to redo things and the reason why is because yoga is magical. And when you start to do something, you start to take action and then you start to reflect on it. And because you're taking this action and refining your mind, you start to see things in a clearer way. So you go, oh, let me change. Let me redo. Let me refocus. And you have to do this over and over and over. Changing, refocusing. Changing, doing it again, refocus. So you end up mastering impermanence. That means that you understand the transient nature of life, the impermanent nature of life. One of the books that we study is the I Ching. And the I Ching is often used as a means of divination. So it's like, oh, I'm gonna be making a choice. I'm gonna be doing something, maybe in my business, in my yoga. So let me throw the I Ching, or use the I Ching app. And then it gives you insight. It says, this is the current state and this is what it may change into, and you gain insight from that. And then it helps you to, you know, go ahead and there's great wisdom in the I Ching. But the way that we study the I Ching is we study the whole I Ching. So, we read the whole book. We don't just use one time to say, what's this decision? Because that will help you at that moment, at that time. But we study the whole book. We read all of it. And then we start to know the nature of change. So we're not just kind of like getting a little insight

0:29:33
from it.

0:29:33
Yeah, we do that, too. It adds wisdom. But we want to actually read the whole book so that we understand the nature of change altogether, so that when we're facing our business, we can be our own I Ching, right? If we understand that nature of change, then when things are changing, when something goes down, we're like, I understand. There's a wisdom that comes from understanding the different aspects and qualities of impermanence. So when we study the I Ching, we study impermanence as a whole. And then when things change in our business, it doesn't have to cause suffering or consternation. It's an understanding of, ah, that's okay, things change. And there's a way that you can deal with changes, be in balance, be in peace, not hanging on to an idea that's going to run you into the ground and not anguishing over the changes that have to be made in the course of work. But you stay focused on a spiritual goal and you let the changes of life come and go and you still attain that goal. So you're like, I'm going to go and do this. And all these things will come up in the way. And you just go with it. You go with the waves of life. But when you have that understanding of impermanence, then you achieve your goal. So this is the way, the I Ching is very powerful because by studying the I Ching, by studying this impermanence, you gain this wisdom of understanding the karmas of change, samsara, right? You're like, okay, things come, things change, things are good, things are bad. But you're also able to see beyond it. So you're not caught in it, you're able to move through it. So this is something that we study, it's very powerful. Now when you do yoga, something powerful happens. We call it, it liquefies your aura. And that means that it's transformative. So when you start engaging in yoga, through the empowerments of yoga, and through working with powerful yoga teachers, what starts to happen is you start to change. You transform. And you go from a very fixed state to a spiritually kind of lucid, liquefied state. So that means that your energy isn't fixed into a certain karma or form. Your energy can change and you can grow into higher, subtle physical forms, or let's say higher states of mind, or higher states of attention. So So, someone who has a very fixed view of the world starts to do yoga and they become, you can call it, open-minded. They start to see things in a bigger way. And so, what actually happens in a subtle physical level is that the energy and empowerments of yoga transform your awareness field. And you say, wow, I looked at things a certain way and now I see it in a new way. So when you do yoga, this process, starting with, you know, the empowerments and working through doing yoga in a structured way, learning yoga, you actually change your awareness field. You start to perceive life in bigger ways. And that could be something like, I remember with my teacher, he said, okay, I'm going to teach you yoga, I'm going to start giving you these empowerments. And he said, I want you to become a computer programmer. And I was like, no way I can be a computer programmer, it doesn't make any sense. I'm into Kung Fu and acupuncture, and I'm not a computer kind of person. I'm not good at math and stuff like that. And then my aura became liquefied, empowered, and I saw things bigger, that I was more capable, and I was able to become a computer programmer. So you can change, and you can go from being a computer programmer to a salesperson, right? It's like, all right, I'm a computer programmer. I've built a product, but now I have to sell it. So a lot of computer programmers like to be in their little cubicle coding, and they can't really deal with the world. Well, I need to be, if I need to do my yoga and sell this product, your oar is liquefied. You change, you transform, and you go, okay, now I can go forth and sell this. Now I can be a salesperson. I can speak at different technical seminars and trade shows. Do what you gotta do. You can change. You're not any specific way. When you do yoga, you have to do whatever it takes. You have to grow and change in any way that you need to change. So the empowerments of yoga, the structures of yoga, when you practice yoga, when you do yoga, it completely transforms you. You can say, well I would like to do this project, this would be my yoga, but you know I'm not smart, I'm not sales, I'm not this, I'm not that. And then when you do yoga, you become empowered. Your mind opens, you're able to do things that you couldn't do before. You change, you change and you grow. You become something new, something effective, something that works for getting the yoga project done. So this is called liquefying your aura. So it means that you can grow just at a very core level of awareness and attention to being able to be capable of some great things, creating an amazing product, creating an amazing service, making it successful in business, successful in reaching people. You can grow this way, spiritually, in your awareness field, in your power to bring this thing forth. And it is through liquefying your aura. So we're going to do this empowerment, a Buddhist empowerment of yoga. And it's an energy field that it goes into your aura, and it gives you energy and power, but it also makes you changeable. So people usually have a very fixed attention, a very fixed mind, but this energy is like water. It goes into your aura and it makes things move and start to open. So this is something that happens through many empowerments, and then you start to see your life change. You start to say, oh, wow, look, I'm doing things I never did before. I grew in ways that I never thought I could or I never imagined. And now I'm a dive master. I'm a black belt in martial arts. I'm a computer programmer. I'm growing in these different ways that I didn't before. And it comes from this liquefied aura. It comes from these empowerments that get your awareness field to shift and grow, to become malleable and to change. So you're not a fixed person. You're very changeable. You're able to grow. So this is one of the powerful things about the selflessness and empowerment of yoga. So we're going to do this empowerment, yogic empowerment, to give you this energy of power that helps you to open and change and grow. So we're going to sit for one song, and this is gonna be a focus on the third eye. Okay, sit up nice and straight, and let's begin.

0:38:32
♪ so So so You're my life, you're my life You're my life, you're my life You're my life, you're my life You're my life, you're my life Very nice. This kind of transmission gives you power and it's a power to transform things. Look at things differently so that you can gain power from them. A lot of times in business or work or any kind of project, people fall into routines because every day you have to do the same things.

0:40:00
Let's say you're a salesperson. Every day, you gotta call people on the phone. You gotta talk to customers. Let's say you're doing cold calls. One of the best things. You're like, every day I gotta call, pick up the phone, do cold calls, people hang up on me and say, yeah, I wanna talk to you. And you're like, hmm. So people get down because this is a routine and it's like not a fun routine. You know, you get a lot of rejection, and you're like, oh, hmm, right? Or it could be anything, you know, you could be a computer programmer fixing bugs. Like, every day I have bugs to fix, right? And so people get into these routines. They go, the project might be really cool, but every day you get into this routine, you're doing the same thing all the time, and it gets boring. And it gets, your awareness becomes very narrow when you're in a routine. Your awareness of this is hard, this is tiring, day in, day out, right? You're like, where's the yoga? Right, right, where's all this enlightenment? So, when you look at that and you say, wait, I'm going to transform this, you say, what is this? This is yoga, right? And maybe you're not going to sit there and go, it's the jolliest thing. I have to do 50 cold calls in the next hour, right? But you have to understand the way to transform it is that it's powerful. It's powerful to do the work as effectively as you can. So you say, all right, well I have to do those cold calls, or I have to code the computer or fix the bugs or whatever, right? So I've got to do that work. And I've been doing it for a long time, but it makes me strong. You have to get in touch with the power, right? And then you're like, yeah, I'm going to do it because it makes me strong. It's kind of like in martial arts, right? Martial arts might be sitting there going like this for like ever. Like every class you're like, oh, I've got to do a hundred punches. And by doing a hundred punches, it's just kind of the same thing, right? You're just sitting there punching, punching, punching, punching, yeah. But it's powerful. That's the thing about it. It's not a routine. With every punch, you get more powerful. With every punch, you get stronger. So you say, wow, okay, even though every class we have to sit here and do these punches, every punch I do mindfully, every punch I'm gaining power, I'm developing myself. That's how we do our work. So we're like, okay, I have something hard to do, I have something that I do all the time. It's not a routine. It's something that you're in touch with the power of the work. This is very important. I remember in Shotokan karate, you know, there's this fifth degree black belt and his black belt class, and they knew all the advanced kata and forms and you know cool sparring kind of techniques and then they would always start their trainings with basics. They would just do the most basic punches, the most basic katas and forms because basics So, you know, when you're a advanced yogi, you don't sit there and go, oh, I need to go and do my lofty advanced practices. You say basics, basic yoga, basic practice. That's something that's very powerful. So when we focus on these things, basics, and we understand the power of it, that is the foundation of practice. If you're memorizing some cool sutra or thinking about some really high, lofty, interesting Buddhist teaching, that's good, too. But you better have the power of the foundation of basics. So if you're doing something that is like, oh, gosh, this is hard, oh, I don't like doing it. I do this all the time. That's where you need to transform it and get in touch with the power of the yoga and say, yeah, this is how I'm developing myself, getting strong by doing this. And then that way you're able to move on. You have to see the magic in yoga because there's magic. Yoga's magical. So when you're doing your yoga, there's insight, there's magic, there's higher dimensions, higher energies, new realizations that you get from doing yoga. So observe those things and embrace those things. See the magic in your work. One thing that is very common is dreaming. People are doing yoga, and then they start having realizations in dreams that help their yoga. So it might be a computer programmer who's working on a really tough thing. It's like, wow, how am I going to code this product? And oh, it's very, very hard. And then they're really focusing on it. And then in a dream, they're in a magic land with a unicorn and a dolphin. And then all of a sudden, you find the solution. Like the unicorn tells you how to code it, and you go, wow, and the dolphin tells you something else. And you're like, wow. And then you wake up from the dream and you know how to do it. You know, the dolphin was right. And then, you went from this state where things were stuck to having a weird dream with a magical unicorn who pointed the way, where's my unicorn? Oh, anyway, pointed the way to success. And this also happens in dreams, it happens in meditation. So I remember there was a time where I was in a yoga and we had a meditation. Well first of all, we were struggling with sales and my teacher said, yes, you guys have to reach the sales goal. And then he said, all right, we're going to meditate so that we can see the light. We just meditated. And then, in the meditation, all of a sudden, I was like, I know what to do! I didn't know what to do in any physical sense, because I was picking up the phone, doing cold calls, I was going through the motions, but in this meditation, all of a sudden, I was like, I knew something that I couldn't even put in words, an energy, an awareness. And then I was like, aha, and I felt excited. And then the next day, I started to do the same cold calls, the same sales calls, except for I had a new awareness. And it was magical, and it felt good, and the energy was flowing. And then all of a sudden, my phone calls started working, and I started making sales. So there's a lot of magic in it. And sometimes you gain very powerful insights. So this happened with one of our successful yogas, AppBuddy. So AppBuddy had at one point, these competitors that were very well funded, like one of them got $70 million of funding. And they had tons of employees, all the things for sales and marketing. And then at Buddy, yogis were like, what are we gonna do? We're self-funding and we have way less resources. And then we went out to a place of power, meditated, and then they gained insight. They're like, hmm, we should do this. So place of power, meditation, and then they said, I have an insight, this is what we should do. And then they did it, and it was more successful than the giant well-funded competitor. So, there's magic. And give a high five to the unicorn in the dream. And I think the biggest thing about yoga is that you find your love for your work. So you gotta love your work. You know, most people hate their work. Most people think that work is hard, drudgery. They don't really like it. They just do it for whatever, you know, to get paid. And they're not really in touch with the spirit of work. So really, it's important to love your work. You have to say, I'm doing it. You know, like, get in touch with why you're doing yoga, and then find a way to love your work. Most people hate their work. And then it's like, well, that's not yoga, man. If you're doing stuff and you don't like doing it, you're missing something fundamentally, right? So you have to actually turn it around and figure out how to love your work. And it takes reflections. Like, maybe you're just excited because it's spiritual practice, and that's a good thing. Maybe you see how your work provides for you, how it gives you advantages. You know, you've got to look at what it does for you. I remember a story that Gary Brusolari told. Gary was the CIO, Chief Information Officer of General Electric in the mid-1990s. And he talked about a time where he was a manager at General Electric Appliances in Louisville. And he had a team of people and he was under pressure. He was very grumpy. And he was just like, you know, like pushing his people, you know, would yell at them when they weren't getting things done right or on time. And he was just like stressed out. And then General Electric, they would have little parties and things, little events sometimes, team building events. And so they were having an event. And then they got together, and then the people on his team just started talking about, they were just eating, drinking, talking about their lives. And then one of them was like, yeah, so my four kids, taking care of my kids, this and that, and this and that. And then another person's like, oh yeah, my father got sick, so I have to like do all these things, take care of my dad. And so they're just talking about, you know, their lives outside of work, their family, their kids, you know, maybe a dream vacation, you know. So Gary was listening, and he was like, wow, I was looking at things so narrowly, just, I looked at these people as business functions. And then he said, now I see them as a whole person. And instead of just being frustrated or angry, he's like, then I grew from just being a pushing manager to a loving manager, where I loved the people I was working with. I saw their lives in a bigger way. And then, instead of being a grumpy manager, he was like, he had a bigger perspective. And then he was able to manage his projects better. He said it was the key thing that transformed his work. something to love, you know. The tasks themselves, the cold calls, you know. If you're going to do cold calling and then you love your customer, right, you love the person who's going to pick up the phone, that energy is going to come across. And it's going to change and transform your work. So, first and foremost, you got to find love in your work, love what you do. And then that's yoga. That's something that brings you into the ability. Like if you love your work, you're going to become very good at your work. You're going to hassle the details. You're going to become impeccable. If you love your work, that's the essence of selflessness. You're going to do whatever it takes. You're not going to get frustrated when you love what you're doing. So this is the thing that brings you into a condition of unity. This is why yoga is a fast pathway to enlightenment. All right, thank you all very much. All right, thank you all very much.

0:56:39
Be well.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
