0:00:00
Welcome everyone to Satsang. We're going to begin with meditation. We will focus on the heart chakra for one song. So sit nice and straight.

0:00:13
And let's begin. so so the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so so so so so the the the the Alright. All right, so today I'd like to talk about spiritual balance. Spiritual balance is simply being at peace. Being at peace with yourself, being at peace with others, being at peace with the world. Spiritual balance is where you feel complete. You don't feel like you're missing anything. There's nothing that you need to have. You feel okay where you're at with what you're doing, with what's going on. And there's nothing to keep away. There's nothing to push out.

0:03:50
There's nothing to be averse to. Spiritual balance is simply an innocent acceptance of life as it is. Now balance is really important. Without balance everything falls apart. So we seek in Buddhism to be balanced in all ways. To be balanced spiritually, to be balanced in in our physical lives as well. There was three monks walking, and they see a giant mango tree. They go, whoa, that's a big, this tall mango tree. And then one of the monks says, you know, the best mangoes are at the top of the tree. So the three monks go, let's get some. So they climb up the tree, and on the way up, they're finding some mangoes, they're picking them, throwing them down, and climbing the tree, climbing the tree, and then they get to, they're way up on the tree, and one of them goes out on one limb, and the other two go out on another branch, and they're going after mangoes, and then there's two on one side, so then the tree starts going like this, and then the monk over here says, hey guys, this tree's gonna fall over. One of you has to let go now. And then one of them lets go and he falls all the way down. And then he goes splat in the pile of mangoes that they were throwing. And then the other monks see that he's okay and they're happy, but then they go, it was so selfless of him and they say thank you. See they were hanging on the bridge. Thank you. And they fall down. Bam! Into the mangoes. And they enjoy. So balance is important. You have to have balance. Now a lot of people think that Spiritual balance is being at ease That everything works out for you that you don't have to struggle There's no strife. There's no hardship and they go. Oh, then I could be spiritually balanced. That's what spiritual balance is, right? No Actually spiritual balance is being positive, happy, balanced, at peace, even when things are difficult, even when there's hardship, even when there's struggle and strife. In fact, you have to have struggle to attain balance. Without struggle, you won't be balanced. If everything's going easy for you, and you say, yeah, I'm balanced, you're just experiencing the yin. And then when the yang comes, you know, when the cartwheel turns, as the Buddha would say, dukkha, suffering occurs. That means that you might be at ease because nothing difficult's happening. But the moment something difficult happens, you go, ouch, this is terrible, my piece is ruined. And that means that you don't have spiritual balance. So you need hardship, you need struggle to create balance. I remember when I was learning martial arts as a kid, I was doing this Kung Fu form where I had to stand on one leg, extend my other leg and do things with my hands. And I remember standing and trying to extend my leg and then I fall over right away. And I'm like, whoa, this is hard. This is tricky to be balanced doing this technique. And I did it over and over and I fell again and again until I started to become stronger and more balanced and then I was able to have solid balance in doing the technique. Now that comes from you know these adjustments when you're standing on one leg you start to fall a little bit and then your muscle tightens up and you start to get back in place and then you start to go the other way and then the other muscle tightens up. So through these little adjustments you actually become stronger. You become strong and then that strength is balanced. So hardship is not a sign that something's wrong. Hardship is a sign that you can take it to become stronger and then be spiritually balanced. You know, Buddha was in a situation of ease. He was born a prince and his father just gave him everything good. So he was hanging out in the court with the courtesans, he was playing games, drinking, just everything was a party. He had ease, but he didn't have spiritual balance, he wasn't at peace. So he was like, everything in my life is easy, everything is simple, there's no struggle, no strife. However, he's like, I'm not happy, I gotta solve something, gotta solve this problem with death. You know, he's like, I gotta, I have to do something so I can be at peace. So then he left the palace, he left this place of ease and comfort. And then he existed, you know, living out in the jungle, not having a lot of food, sometimes fasting for a long time, doing asceticism practices that are really, really difficult, you know, all sorts of things, holding his breath for a long time. All of these very austere, difficult practices, struggling for freedom, struggling for that complete spiritual balance, enlightenment. And then he finally attained enlightenment. And he called enlightenment the middle way. It's a, and the middle way is a way of balance. So, just because things are difficult doesn't mean that something's wrong in your life. It means that that's the thing to work on to become strong and then you'll have spiritual balance. So don't look for ease. Don't look for comfort. Look for being strong, being spiritually balanced. It's important. So struggle is not a bad thing. You become balanced through struggle. Now, something that brings spiritual balance is humility. When you're humble, it's easy to be balanced. If you have self-importance, everything can make you upset. If you're self-important, you're like, oh my gosh, I can't believe that person looked at me like that, or did that thing, or said something, right? Like, or, you know, didn't put away their cup in the sink. Didn't wash their dish because they're mad at me, or they're mean to me, or they're everything affects me, right? And that's, that's self-importance. Someone who has self-importance blames and gets way out of balance. So humility is selflessness. Humility is spiritual balance. In humility you learn that no matter what happens you can bend and not break. So Buddha had a simile of a blade of grass and a great oak tree or something. So it's like the blade of grass, a torrent of wind can come. And the blade of grass just bends over and then when the wind goes away, it comes back up. But the tree, it can withstand a lot, but then if the wind is strong enough, the tree breaks in half, falls down forever and dies. So Buddha said, be like the blade of grass. That's humility. And so if somebody does something really mean and horrible, you bend and don't break. So humility is good. It's important. You know, I remember my teacher said that humility is the greatest spiritual attribute. And when he said that, one of the other monks went, yes! And I was like, what? What's going on? And he's like, if there's one thing I'm better at than anyone, it's humility. Yeah. I'm writing a book on humility. I think it's going to be a bestseller. You know, it's like, whatever, I'm the best. Yeah, be humble. And then when you're humble, you're happy. And when you're humble, there's spiritual balance. You know, in this world, looking at what's going on, paying attention to the news, you know, living in a place where there's wars, alarms of war, injustice, just being in this world corrupts your awareness. It makes a toxic, the world's toxic so when you look at the world you engage in this thing that creates a lot of impurity. You know, as they say, the first casualty of war is innocence. So we have to be able to deal with the world in a way with great purity. Even a tough world, even a political world, even a world where there's war, we have to have purity. And you can have purity. And purity comes from a deep reflection of your eternal nature through meditation. By knowing peace and perfection in your mind, you can deal with a crazy world in a pure way. There's a film that kind of demonstrates this. This is an old film. It's called Being There. I'm like, it's old, like 1982 or something like that. And there's this pure being played by Peter Sellers. He's a very pure being. And he somehow finds his way into the White House and, you know, friends kind of around these like billionaires and politicians and all these people who are, you know, playing money games or politics games and things like that and he enters into that world and he maintains his purity. So you can deal with a crazy world intelligently, successfully and with great purity. Everything that you do is an expression of your mind. So if you meditate and come to high states of purity, then what you do in your work, in your relationships, it's going to bring forth a beautiful thing, a beautiful energy. And if you have impurity in your mind, anything that you do will bring forth some impurity, some problem, some difficulty, something not pleasant. There was a story where the Buddha had come from far away and was coming to give a teaching monks in a certain area and one of the senior students, one of the Arhants, said to two monks, hey go get Buddha some water. Like he's coming on this long journey, he and the people with him will be thirsty. So one of the monks runs to the well and the other monk goes to the river. And then they bring back some water in a vessel, put it before Buddha, and then Buddha takes, actually, so they put it down, I guess, on a table, then Buddha comes, right? And then he takes the other vessel and he pours it for himself and for others and they drink it. And then, you know, one of the monks who are standing by were like, why did you pour out that water? And then later on, they just, they asked, who's, whose, whose water was that that he poured out? And then this one goes, it was mine. And I go, why do you think he poured it out? Like, what did you do? He's like, I just went to the well and I got water. He's like, and then on the way to the well, he stubbed my toe. And I was like, ow! And then I went to the well and there was a line and I had to wait in the line. And I told people, hey, I'm here to get water for Buddha, but they didn't care. I had to wait in line. And I got so frustrated. And it was hot because it's India. And then, you know, he just kept going on with all these frustrations. And then he fetched the water and he goes, and the whole way back, I was like, how could those people be like that? And why is it such a long walk and everything? And then they say, oh, okay. And then they say, what about you? To the other monk. What was your experience? And he's like, I was filled with joy. The teachings of the Buddha were coming and I wanted to give Buddha refreshing water. You know, just happy. He like had to walk a long distance, had to, you know, fill up a vessel of water and carry it back and it and all that. And maybe he tripped and stubbed his toe too, but he wasn't mad. He was happy. He had a positive state of mind. So the Buddha, when was given these two vessels of water, one was impure. It was a person, the reflection of their doing was their mind. And it was like a whole bunch of bad thoughts. So Buddha's like, no one can drink this. That reminds me of Dr. Imoto, Hidden Messages in the Water, something like that. And this is a doctor, scientist, who would take water where, like a Zen priest would pray and chant and hold the water and have good intentions. And then someone else would hold another glass of water and get angry. And then when freezing the water, he would observe the crystals. And the crystals from the angry person, the crystals look really hideous and terrible. They look scary. And then the crystals from the Zen priest's water look beautiful, amazing, like mandalas. So, and he was like, see, your mind can affect things. And it does. Your mind affects everything that you do. So that's why we want to do things with great purity. And that brings a lot of spiritual balance. Another thing that brings spiritual balance is humor. You've got to be funny. You have to have a sense of humor because life is crazy. And if you get too, you know, focused on the fixed finite difficulties of life and you don't have humor, then you're stuck. But humor adds levity. It breaks things that are congested. It gives you a bigger view. So when you have a sense of humor about life and yourself, it brings spiritual balance. I remember there was a difficult time in our country. It's called 9-11. And after 9-11, Americans were all upset and shocked. And there was a comedian, Gilbert Godfrey, who, you know, had some show, a TV show, something special. And he gets up and he says, yeah, you know, I flew out here from New York. He's like, and I couldn't get a direct flight. I had to fly through the Empire States Building. And, you know, he's making a joke, like everyone's in shock and going, oh my God, the worst thing happened. And he makes a joke about it. And then that just gives people a little bit of, oh, we shouldn't be so freaked out. Like, let's chill out. So humor is good, even about really difficult things. I love San Lorenzo, St. Lawrence.

0:23:32
Okay.

0:23:33
Lorenzo, St. Lawrence. So San Lorenzo was a Protestant and then he got caught by the Spanish Inquisition because no one saw that coming. And you know what they did? They put and held him over a fire. And then they're burning him, then they flipped him over and burned him more. And then he said, he was in total pain. I mean, they're killing him, right? And then he says, that side's done. I was like, I don't know, might as well have a sense of humor even if you're gonna be burned to death. Okay, so when you have spiritual balance, it comes from doing the right thing or sometimes not doing. So, there's doing and not doing. And as long as you do the right thing or not do the right thing, it brings perfect balance. But meditation, meditation is not doing the right thing. Because when you meditate, you're stopping thought. When you meditate, you're letting go of thought. And that's a not doing. And when you stop thought, then you experience the beautiful, eternal awareness. And it's luminous and beautiful and you say ah and that brings immediately spiritual balance. So sometimes there are things to not do like uh like Rosa Parks right um 1955 Montgomery, Alabama there were the Jim Crow laws of segregation where it's like they had rules. Black people had had to sit on the back of the bus. That was just the rule. So she was on a bus, sitting in the first row of where Black people can sit. And then the white section of the bus got filled up. So then the bus driver said, hey, you know what? Why don't you guys in this row, there's four of them, stand up and go to the back so that we can open these seats for white people. And then Rosa Parks said, no. So she did nothing. And not doing got her arrested, but it changed things. It got people to say, hey, this is wrong, right? And it created a balance in the long run. And that was by her not doing something. And it created a movement because it was an imbalanced situation. And by not doing, she brought that to greater awareness. And then a few days later, there was the Women's Political Council. This is a group of African-American women who, you know, were looking at ending segregation. And then they were like, look at what Rosa Parks did. Let's not do something. And so it was a Joanne Robinson was the president of it, she said, we got to take this and not do something, which is they created a boycott of the bus system. And then because of Rosa Parks not doing something and because of this boycott, everything got, that affected the city, went up to the city council and finally, to a federal court and they said, oh, segregation is not constitutional. So they struck down this law and then black people were able to sit on the front of the bus. So not doing something is sometimes something that brings balance, but sometimes doing something is what brings balance. So I like this story about Desi Arnaz. You guys know Desi Arnaz? Desi Arnaz was the husband in an old show called I Love Lucy, which you've all seen. Everyone's seen it. So I Love Lucy, back in the mid-'50s, there was this this show and even I was when I saw it as a kid I was watching the reruns I was like wow this is strange you know there's this um this this old show and there's an interracial couple Lucy and this uh uh Cuban guy and I was like hmm that's unusual and um and then uh he had a really tough time in the business. He was, you know, he started off as a musician and then he, you know, got this TV show and he wanted to do more things. So, you know, he was out in Hollywood trying to get more business and do more things. And he ended up being very successful. But at first he realized he was missing all these deals. He was like, why is it that I have this really good idea and I talk to people about it and it never comes through. He noticed that the place where people made the deals were on the golf course. Now, when he tried to go to the golf club, they said, no, you can't come in. They didn't let Latinos in. No, you can't come in. You can come in and wash the dishes. You can come in and water the grass, but you can't play golf. So he's like, wow. He's like, I'm missing all these deals because they happen on the golf course. And then he said, you know what? I'm gonna make a golf course. So he went out and he went to Palm Springs and he made this luxurious resort and a world-class golf course. And this is where, so Palm Springs now is this big destination. And he made it a destination because of making this amazing resort. And even the PGA chose that resort for one of their golf tournaments. And so he was like, okay, if I can't go onto your golf course to do the deal, I'm going to make such an amazing golf course that you're going to come to me. And then they did. It started off with the Bob Hope, who was a great actor, tournament. Arnold Palmer won it, and then that brought everybody over.

0:30:49
Yeah. See, legend of bagger bands.

0:30:52
These things happen. Do golf for a good reason. So you gotta do something sometimes, right? So that was a huge doing. And then from there, he was able to make, you know, his production studio, he did the date, the dike show, all sorts of things. So he was very successful. So you gotta do things. So whether you're not doing or doing, you gotta do it right. You gotta do or not do something that actually works, that actually brings spiritual balance. We often will work on career because career, having the right livelihood, having your focus on having a strong career brings balance in this world. So in this, you know, degenerated time, as they say, it's necessary to have enough money to pay for the things that you need to provide for yourself so that you can practice. If you're stressed out about money, you're spending a ton of energy on stress for money. It's a big thing that wastes people's personal power. But when you have enough money, when you have a strong career, then you have a balance. It's one of the most important things, right livelihood, this attention in this time. So it creates a lot of balance. So it's important to make sure that you have a strong career. And sometimes you can do something that prevents you from losing balance. I remember I taught, I teach martial arts and I taught self-defense classes. And I was teaching self-defense, just these techniques that I knew, just helping people out. And then I got a letter, a woman that I taught a couple years before, she was like, I was attacked and I just did that move that you showed me, and it totally worked, and I was able to get away. You know, like, not hurt. So that's why we do martial arts. Martial arts is something where we develop power, but we also are learning something that can save your life or the life of another, and that creates balance. See, it's powerful. Spiritual balance is a powerful thing. It's not a wimpy, like, oh, thing. It's a powerful thing. You know, the first thing that brings you power in martial arts is stance. When you can stand strong, then anything that you do is powerful. If you don't have balance, when you punch someone, you'll fall over. There's an old story of this Kung Fu master named Yun Dai. Yun Dai, when he first was learning martial arts, his teacher just had him standing in this thing called horse riding stance. So he's like, stand. He's like, okay, standing there. And he's all, it's a difficult stance. You just kind of stand like this. And he's standing there and he's like, oh, it's hard to stand like this for so long. And then he just keeps standing and standing. And his teacher would have him stand for three days in a row, in this very difficult stance. And so he's like, when am I gonna learn Kung Fu? You have me standing around. And then one day, after years of training, stance, um stance. Yundai was walking and Yundai was attacked by 10 bandits and Yundai didn't know any special punches or kicks or anything but when all the bandits came to grab him he stood you know he strengthened his stance and they all fell. So stance this is this is a story of horse, this horse dance. It creates a lot of power just by having the strength of balance. So it's very, very important. And that's, you know, career and martial arts. These are things about the physical world. And meditation is about the spiritual world. You have to have balance in your physical life to have balance in your spiritual life. If you're just all meditating and going into la-la land and your daydreams and your physical life is out of balance, then your meditation is not strong. And if you're just focused on the physical world and you're not meditating, then you're not spiritually balanced either because you're focusing on the finite and not the infinite. So we do both the physical and the non-physical. We both do and don't do. And this is the way to spiritual balance. In fact, there's a secret. There's actually a real, real powerful secret that creates spiritual balance. And that is to live an intentional life. That is to choose a purpose for your life. Because when you choose a purpose, you choose an outcome. When you start looking at life is this, this is my mission, then that mission becomes your experience. So our Buddhist mystic secret is that we choose enlightenment as the purpose of our lives and then enlightenment is the experience of our lives. Every moment is a greater unfoldment of enlightenment because that is our purpose. We're on a mission. A Buddhist mystic is on a mission for enlightenment. And with every meditation, you say, I'm meditating, I'm seeking enlightenment, seeking to know the enlightenment within me. So when you say, I want enlightenment, that's my mission. You know, Jesus said, seek and ye shall find. And we say in Buddhism, what you focus on, you will become. So if you focus on enlightenment, if that's your mission, you will attain enlightenment, you will find enlightenment. work on career, martial arts. This enlightenment that we find is primarily in meditation. When you stop thought, you're filled with light. When you slow down thought, you start to come into balance. So the primary place is meditation, this luminosity, enlightenment, is where we find it and that's what brings spiritual balance. So I'd like to do the transmission teaching of spiritual balance. If you would sit up nice and straight and bring your focus to the third eye, and this is an open eye meditation. Look up this way and we'll sit for one song. Let's begin.

0:39:00
so I'm all alone so so So Very nice. So things are difficult sometimes. Sometimes we suffer. But if you can accept life, take the pain, come to a deeper place of stillness and luminosity in your meditation, then you find spiritual balance. You know, have faith. Faith brings balance. And I don't

0:40:18
mean like faith in like believing or hoping. Like, oh I have faith! That's a hope for a lot of people. For a lot of people faith is a self conviction. It's a I must believe this and then my ego attaches to that concept and I won't let it go. There is a God and I'm a God-fearing person you know or whatever. And I'm not talking about the faith of self ego conviction or hoping. Faith is really an acknowledgment, an awareness of the miracle of life. It's knowing that the sun's going to rise, knowing that there's a wave in the ocean, that the wind blows. It's just acknowledging the miracle of life. Life's a miracle. You're a miracle. And when you think nothing's going to work out, everything works out. Things work out. Watch a plant grow. Things work out. There's all sorts of difficulties and hardships, but things work out.

0:44:46
Have faith.

0:44:48
You don't need to know all the details, how everything works. You can have faith. It's like, you know, when you're turning your car on, you don't know how, most of us don't know how a car works. We know that there's an engine, but how does that work? What's fuel injection? So you turn your car on, you're driving it, you're like, okay, I have faith that it's going to work. And guess what? Usually does, till the breaks down. But you know, you turn on your car, it doesn't blow up, you have faith. You know, when you go out to eat in a restaurant, you have faith that they're going to make you a nice meal. Hopefully they won't poison you. You're like, I have faith that I won't be poisoned, and that's why I'm here. And at some restaurants, you know, like, things work out. Things work out. Like watch a plant grow, really. Things work out. There was this one yogi, my last story, there was a yogi who was always like, nothing works out, nothing works out. Everything's bad, everything's a problem. And his master got him to put a bunch of dirt in his hand and his master put a little seed and he said, don't drop this. He's like, water it? And he's like, okay. So he's going around and put some water on it and then after, you know, a few days it sprouts. And he's like, oh, wow. And then his master's like, don't drop it. And so he would just like sleep, you know, with his hand out, he'd fall asleep. And then he'd wake up. So he's going around for weeks and this little plant grows. And then, you know, there's a little bud. And then one morning he wakes up and in the morning sun, the bud blossoms. And then he sees it. blossoms and Then he sees it and then he he becomes enlightened experience says moksha liberation self realization because he goes things work out things work out And that's what brings spiritual balance, thank you very much




Transcribed with Cockatoo
