0:00:00
Hello, welcome. We're going to begin with meditation. This is going to be focused on the third eye. So sit nice and straight. One song meditation. Let's begin.

0:00:17
the the the So So so so so you So So So today I'm going to offer the intermediate teachings of dreaming.

0:04:31
So this is the next step after the beginning teachings. So the beginning teachings were teachings I gave at the Cal Theatre. And if you want to practice the intermediate teachings, you have to be well-versed in practice in the beginning teachings. But most of you have gotten those teachings. I don't know how much you practice it. But I'll give the intermediate teachings. First of all, it's important to recognize the dream plane. Every night, you fall asleep, you go into a completely different universe of experience. All sorts of crazy things can happen. Funny things, scary things, wacky things, unreal things. And then we wake up and we say, oh, it was just a dream. But no, the dreams are real. They're real to your experience. They're real to your spirit and to your mind. So the dream plane is a fabulous place for self-discovery. You know, the first Karmapa of Tibet, he became enlightened through dream yoga in the dream plane. He was 50 years old, he was practicing dream yoga for about 20 years and he became enlightened in the dream plane. So the dream plane is a place where where you can do yogic practices for spiritual development. You can also gain Siddha powers. It's a very mystical place, so you can gain the powers of the city. There's the relative city and the absolute city. And relative city is powers in this world. So in our school we have a lot of focus on developing Siddha-like powers, just different abilities, things that I'll do on power trips, desert trips, things these cities are to practice dream yoga. This happened with Milarepa. Milarepa was learning dream yoga and in his dreams he was having magnificent fabulous experiences. He was like flying and stuff in his dreams. And then he's very happy, excited, having good magical experiences in the dreams. But then those things started to happen in his physical life. So Milorado was this yogi who was known to be able to fly. So he learned it in a dream, and then it became something he could do in his physical life as well. So this is, so dream yoga is one of the ways that we learn the cities. But then there's the absolute city. And the absolute city is the power to be not affected by the world of illusion. And in the dreams, we learn how there could be all sorts

0:07:53
of things going on.

0:07:55
And we say, I recognize that this is uh this transient I recognize that this is unreal and when you recognize that in the dream then that also gives you that power in the physical world when something happens everything's going crazy you say wait I recognize that this is not real. It changes. And then you get this absolute power of lucidity and awareness that is not bound by finite conditions. So this is something that I do it almost every night. And in dream yoga, I've mastered the techniques of dream yoga and what I do is I teach in dreams. And I teach you all in dreams very

0:09:06
Whenever you have a dream about me,

0:09:08
there's a certain dream etiquette that I follow. It will either be a very high spiritual dream or have some deep insight, or it'll be funny or playful. I never go into people's dreams and yell at them. I would do that in person, in the waking. So sometimes people have dreams where they have, I appear as a symbol of their own mind and then I yell at them. But that's not me. So there's real dream and there's fake dream. Really, there's karma dream and then there's wisdom dream. So a lot of people just dream with no lucidity and they just are rolling through karmas of the mind. They're getting self-reflections and different ideas coming back in different symbols. And so that's where if it's karma you might have some, oh yeah, you know, I should be doing my computer programming more or something like that. I should be getting a job or something. Then I'll appear and I'll be like, hey, you should get a job. But that's just still your karma mind. Wisdom dream is what we call real dream. That's where there is a greater reality. There's a greater lucidity, there's a greater power or a higher dimension. This is something that gives your spirit insight, wisdom, power, humor. So when I appear in your dream, it is a wisdom dream. You can learn through yoga and have a wisdom dream. So if you ever have a dream with me or where I'm, you know, influencing your dream, coming into your dream, rocking your dream boat. That's when there's a wisdom. And I will always be spiritual and insightful or give a spiritual teaching or I'll be funny. I won't ever give you a hard time. Now, I really like it when people tell me about the dreams. So I dream with students, maybe groups of students, maybe all students, maybe different individuals from time to time. And I do it almost every night. But I don't exactly know what your experience is. So some might say, well, I had a dream with you. I say, well, tell me about it. And then they'll tell me the story of their dream. And then they'll say, was that you? I say, yeah. And then they go, well, then why don't you know the story? Because when I dream, I project a spiritual teaching in the second attention. So spiritual energy, maybe a specific one, how to overcome fear or how to develop more personal power. I will project that to the dream dimensions and the second attention. But the way that you interpret it is through the symbols of your mind. And so the way that it plays out could be quite interesting and fun. And so I always like to hear the dream stories. Now to understand your symbols, you have to go back to the beginning teaching, which is keeping a dream long. If you're writing down your dreams, soon as you wake up, then you're gonna start to see what the symbols of your mind project. And you'll start to see, wow, there's always this thing. And after seeing it, you'll start to understand the symbols of your mind. And it's very important to know them. If you don't understand what something is when it appears in the dream, When you have a dream log, it is a place, one, where you have that statement of intent to be aware of your dreams, and two, where you can, by writing it down, draw out from dream unconscious mind, greater awareness, greater awareness of your mind. So dreams are powerful. The dream plane is a place of self-discovery. So I'm going to give the transmission of the intermediate teachings dream. So sit up nice and straight. Look up here to me, soft focus So, I'm going to go ahead and get started.

0:14:42
you So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the the the Thank you. you So, there's additional mindful practices for the yoga of dreaming. It begins with intention. you have to set your intent to wake up in your dream, to follow the teachings. If you don't have strong intent, then you'll have a karma dream. You won't have a wisdom dream.

0:16:21
I don't know, maybe you had this experience, like you knew that you had to wake up in the morning to do something important. So you set your alarm, but you knew, you had this real strong intention. I got to get up early because I got to do this important

0:19:24
thing.

0:19:25
And then you wake up like a minute before your alarm. That's the kind of intent that you have to have. So I used to do that. I used to be like, oh my gosh, I got to go to work early or something. And I would wake up one minute before my alarm and then I had that intent and then I was able to bring that intent into my dream. I'm going to be in my dream, I'm going to wake up in my dream, I'm going to practice dream yoga and then I would do that. It takes strong or having a dream journal is something that is a statement of intent because you wake up and you write down and you have that intent to bring your awareness to dreams and to bring it down into the structure of the journal. So intent is most important. And then we come of dream yoga. This is one of the six yogas of Naropa. And this is something that Marco learned and taught to Milarepa. And Milarepa was a very successful dream yogi. So these are actually the six steps of the practice that Milarepa himself did, where he was able to learn to fly in his dreams and fly in real life. So it's a powerful yoga. The first step is lucidity, right? So it's, you know, after you have that intent, then in a dream, you wake up. And when you wake up, you say, well, okay, I see what's going on. I'm aware, I know that I'm dreaming. And when you have lucidity, lucid dreaming, becoming awake in the dream, then that's the beginning of dream yoga. So there's several ways to become lucid in a dream. And I recommend to you, I think the best way is to go to sleep listening to one of my Dharma talks. If you really want to do lucid dreaming, play my Dharma talks all night long. You don't have to play it loud, so it keeps you up. But as my student, you're trained to listen and focus and see the truth and power and dimensions of my teachings. So if you fall asleep and you hear my voice, your mind is going to go towards awakening and then you'll wake up with a new dream. And then I'll be there probably, and I'll So I think that's the best way. But the other way is to do something like a chime every hour. So there's like some little sound that goes boom. You have to find that sound and you have to get an app that plays it or something like that. And it could be a song that plays every hour. And the thing that has to happen is when that song or that tone happens, you have to train yourself in physical life. Like you listen to that tone, it goes boom, and then you go, all right, I'm looking around, I'm aware. If you practice that in the waking, then when that tone goes off, or that song goes off while you're sleeping, then you'll say, Oh, okay, I'm aware. You say, Well, guess what? I'm dreaming. So that that's another way for lucidity. Another way is to have a dream ring. And the dream ring is an interesting thing. You get a ring and it's your dreaming ring. And you put that ring on, you wear it only at night. During the day, you don't wear it. You only wear it when you're going to sleep. And then when you go to sleep, in the dream, you look at your hand and you won't see the ring. But you know that you put a ring on, but in the dream, you won't see the ring. It won't be on your hand because it's not part of you. And then when you know that it's on and you see your hand in the dream, it will wake you up. It will become lucid. The dream ring. And then another very important way, extremely important if you really want to become lucid, is that you set your alarm clock or your intent so that you wake up two and a half hours before you're gonna really wake up. And so your alarm goes off, you know, oh, dark 30 in the morning and you go oh gosh and you have to spend 15 minutes going through the basic practices. So maybe the red lotus of the throat for 15 minutes and then go back to sleep and then lucidity happens. This is a very strong technique. So you have to be lucid. If you are not lucid in your dream, it is going to be a complete karma dream. You're not going to know anything, you're not going to gain any wisdom. There has to be awareness, you have to wake up in the dream. That's the first step. The second step is facing fear. One of the wonderful things about dream yoga is that it shows you the way out of karma, shows you the way out of suffering. So I had a student who was being hurt and scared and all this stuff and then she said what do I do and I said you gotta get out of the karma of it you gotta wake up and then if you wake up and she became lucid in the dream. And then the demon realized that she was lucid. He's like, oh no, what's going on? Well, I'm gonna come after you anyway. But there was that funny moment where instead of just acting in her karma, she changed into a wisdom dream. And then the demons messing with me, I'm going to just magically get myself out of this. So that's lucidity. But the second, and that's where you can do magical things. But the second part of dream yoga is facing facing your fears. So this would mean that you don't fly away. You look at that demon and you face that and then you see what that demon means because it shows you something of your mind. I remember for myself, I was learning computer programming but I was really bad at it. And I was really afraid. I was afraid of the computer. So what's it going to do to me? I was afraid of technology. And I remember I had a lucid dream where there was this giant monster. And the giant monster was a tech monster. But it was really scary. And I was like, oh my gosh, it's a tech monster. And then I said, all right, I have to face this monster. So I faced it, and then it came over, and it was all scary. And then it just all of a sudden fell down like it was like a big sheet in a big blanket, and it just fell down like a big blanket. And then in it, there was something moving in the blanket and I lifted up the blanket and it was like a little bunny rabbit. And so I was like, wow, that thing that seemed so scary when I faced it, I got to see that it's not so bad. And in fact, it's kind of cool. And then I lost my fear of technology. So when you face your fears in the dream, it's really intense because they seem very real. And they are, but they're transient. But when you face them, you can see through them. You can see what is the truth behind those difficult things. Yeah, so sometimes in the dream you have to, you know, when you're lucid you have to say, well now the second step is I have to go to something that's scary to me. I've put myself in a situation that's scary. When I'm lucid and I know it's a dream, that's the second step of yoga. I remember also in the dream during the second step of yoga, I was like, well what should I do? Oh, let's go to a fire. And I went to the fire and put my hand inside a little bit. And I was all, this isn't even real. Which is funny, because when you first put your hand in the fire, you feel it. But then you start to say, but I'm actually not feeling anything. Then you say, oh, okay, I can put my hand in the fire and it doesn't burn. But in dreams, if you haven't noticed, if someone throws a rock at you, hits you, you feel it. You go, ouch! You actually feel in the dream. But it's not as real. And if you test it out, and you know, hand in the fire, then you realize that it So, you have to face your fears. You have to see that nothing can harm you. As they say in the Tibetan book of the dead, emptiness cannot harm emptiness. There's nothing that can hurt you. So that's something that you have to explore. Face your fears. The third step of intermediate dream yoga is recognizing the transience of the dream plane. So in the dream plane, once you're lucid and after you've faced your fears, then you have to look around and see the transience of the place because it seems as real as the waking. But then you start to see different parts. Like if you look at a clock, it won't, the numbers will change or the hands will keep spinning. They can't stay the same. Or if you, you know, decide you want to watch TV, it'll just be all this crazy stuff going on. You look at your watch or something like that, look at something that's supposed to be consistent or have an image and everything, it can't stay the same. In fact, you can look at anything. As long as you look at anything, like let's say there's a mountain. If you look at the mountain, you'll say, okay, and you'll see it, and then you'll start to see the mountain moving. If you look at a building, it'll go up and down. So nothing, but once you focus on anything in the dream plane, you'll see that it moves, that it changes. The easiest kind of thing to look at is a clock. And you'll just be like, wow, I know that a clock is supposed to be consistent. And then you'll see it doing all sorts of weird stuff. And you'll say, okay. So you have to recognize that the dream plane is transient. And then once you recognize transience, then there's a very powerful mudra that you should do. And this mudra that Buddha did, it's called witness. And what he did was, he was in these very high samadhi states of consciousness. And then he wanted to test to see if that was reality. So when he touched the ground, he was like, he came to this powerful awareness that these high states of samadhi are grounded. And then that created a balance, an integration of those enlightened states with the physical world, not spaced out. And the same thing happens in the dream plane when you recognize the transience, when you really understand the transience of the dream stage. When you touch the ground, then with your hand, then some balance comes in. In fact, this is where you start to develop the Siddha powers in the dreams. The cities come out by just, you're kind of acclimating yourself to having agency and power in the dream plane when you touch the ground, recognizing the transience. So then you go on to the next step, which is changing stuff. So once you know that the dream plane is transient, you've overcome your fear and you're awake in the dream. And then once you have touched the ground, then you can get a teeny little car. And you can like go over to a house and make it disappear. So you have to change things in the dreams. You can make weather happen. This is where we learn a lot about weather cities. So you have to change things in the dreams and you have to do this over and over and over so that it's something that is very, very, very clear in your mind. This is how you develop cities. And so we do it in the dream over and over and over. And then it has to just be your natural thing. Every time you dream, you're lucid and you're not transient. You have the powers. You start changing things. Go, don't like this. I'll change it. And then you go to the next step. Once you know that you can change things, then you change yourself. And you might fly, you might grow in size, shrink in size, you might turn invisible, you might turn into light. You start changing yourself. And this is another aspect of how we learn the cities, by changing ourselves. There's a number of dimensions that we train. I can't explain them in words, but I teach this in the second attention. So when you're able to change yourself, you'll change yourself. And they will appear in different ways through your symbols, but they are dimensions of powerful changes. And then that's how you develop these city powers of light and emptiness and disability and things like that.

0:37:08
Isn't that funny?

0:37:09
And then once you can change, then there's the final step, the sixth step of this yoga. And that is, go to Buddha. So when you're awake in your dream, overcome your fear, when you know everything's transient and you can change things and yourself, then the highest thing to do is to go to someone who's enlightened and if you say okay I want to go to Buddha then you will go to Buddha and Buddha will be there because in dreams you can change dimensions and Buddha exists he lived 2,500 years ago but he's an eternal being and you can access Buddha or Jesus or me. And I remember when I was doing intermediate dream yoga I did this quite often. Once I became aware in my dreams I'd look around and say wow why am I here? This is like a you know I'm walking through the karma of my mind and then I would say I want to go to my teacher. And then I would go to my teacher and then all of a sudden there's light, wisdom, power, and amazing teachers. So this is a beautiful possibility for you. And finally, I would like to give you a special teaching, which is a teaching of how to do hunting and stalking in dream. How to find something in the dream. This is a special teaching. It's not a primary part of this yoga. So it's not the six steps, but it's something that we do in our school. We don't just become awake. We also, in our dreams, we find things. So we actually do. Stalking in dreams. And this is a practice of finding a construct of Dharma in the second attention. And it is in the dream, it is in the form, in the symbol of a jewel. And then you'll follow all the steps of yoga and you'll come to this jewel. When you find this jewel, it will be like a dream attainment of wisdom and light. You will find it and you'll go, wow! It's a very, very powerful and beautiful teaching. And to do this dream quest, I have to show you, I have to show you how to find this. So we're going to sit for one song. And feel and see where I'm, where I'm going to play a little bit of the music.

0:41:19
the the the the the the the the So You the the the the the the the the the the the the the So So so This concludes the intermediate teaching on dreaming yoga. But you have to practice it if you want to learn dreaming yoga.

0:46:30
I'm really good at dreaming yoga. So even if you're not good at dreaming yoga at all, you can still learn powerful things from me because I have the power to come in and show you wisdom in your dreams. But if you want to learn it, you gotta practice. So it's not like, oh, that's an interesting room.

0:46:51
And then you don't practice.

0:46:52
You actually have to practice.

0:46:55
Otherwise, it doesn't work.

0:46:57
You never learn. So I think when I was an intermediate student, I didn't practice that much. I was just not very good at it. I had some lucid dreams once in a while, but mostly I went to bed pretty much unconscious and went through karma dreams. But then as an advanced student, I started to practice more. I began practicing almost every night once I became a teacher. So the advanced dreaming yoga is when you're a teacher. In our school, that's the way it works. You have to teach and then the advanced yoga opens to you. Yeah, it's interesting to observe where you're at because in dreams, whatever occurs is a reflection of your mental state. So for example, when I teach Bodhisitta, I say you should do Bodhisitta so much, and so strong that you dream Bodhisitta. suffering, that instead of you running away or getting angry, the first thing that comes out of you is compassion. If that's what happens in your dreams every time there's a trouble or suffering, then that means that you do practice bodhicitta properly. You have a proper commitment, you have enough mindfulness, it's what happens. I also really like meditating on the dream plane. I go to beautiful places and sit down and stop by. So that's also a beautiful thing to do. So you have to, so when you look at your dreams and all you see is like reflections of karma, then you have to say, well, I really better practice, practice, practice, practice more. Yeah, dream yoga. It's good. It's very powerful. If you want to develop the cities, you know, like the cities that we, that are part of our lineage, principally through the dream plane and transmissions. But you gotta, you gotta have a place to develop them. The dream plane is that place. So I am back in Hawaii and I'm happy to be home. I traveled a lot. I taught a lot. So I had this full schedule of teachings. Like I taught like every day for like 21 days straight, and then I had like a day off, and then I kept teaching. And I had, yeah, probably like three days off during that time. And I was sitting there going, wow, I have a lot of teachings to do. And I was like, I wonder if I'm going to be able to do it. Because it's a lot. It takes a lot of energy. It takes a lot of attention. And I was pretty successful. Except in Iceland. So I was pretty successful. And then I was going to do the last day in Iceland, I was going to do an interview. And then I was going to do one-on-ones. I really, I'm going to do those, but I had to meet with Tara and Atman in the morning. And then in the morning I had to give them transmissions. And then by the evening, you know, I was like, okay, I'm going to go for it. And I showed up, and I was like, oh, it's not going to happen. I was like, if I do a transmission or if I do teaching, it would be too much for me. So fortunately, the Icelandic students understood that. They're like, oh, it's okay. I'm like, okay, thank you. Laying down like, okay, have to recover. So, um, yeah, I think was wonderful. I did a power trip with Icelandic students. places of power. And like, it's hard to get to them, you know, it takes hours, you know, from Hungary or Germany to get to a place of power. You got to go, you know, to Trichyam or something like that. So why is it good there? But in Iceland, you can drive like a half an hour through the city. Go to the city park. It's very beautiful. So it was a wonderful teaching cycle. The teaching cycle is continuing. This is the Enlightenment Summer Solstice teaching cycle and it hasn't ended yet. It's still going. So it's going to be, you know, I have a transmission teaching to do with the Shodans today, and then there's going to be a teaching tomorrow, and then I have another Shodan teaching to do. So it's going on a little bit longer. And then when it's done, I will rest. But then next weekend I'm doing the system. But this, this teaching cycle will probably end on Wednesday or Thursday, and then the next song is going to be the new begin. You know we find the follow the cycles of times. And so, this is the summer solstice teachings. And it's a very powerful solstice for our song. our sangha. And then when this ends, then we enter in a new flow of new energy. That will be the next weekend satsang. And then after that satsang, then I will rest. will be the next weekend satsang. And then after that satsang, then I will rest. So anyway, thank you all very much. Be well.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
