0:00:00
All right, hello everyone. Hope everyone from Kailua made it in. All right, so let's begin with meditation. So we're going to sit from one song on the navel. Sit up nice and straight. Let's begin.

0:00:12
So So, so so So, Okay. So, I'll start off by saying, but ons. You guys are doing okay. And this is a correction more for showdowns. boat on to see what comes next. So, Shodons, you guys are kind of fucking up. You guys

0:03:58
are not doing well. This is not an okay situation, what's going on with the showrooms. Now, when we talk about an organization, we have to look to the black belts, right? We have to, I mean, we talked about dojo, right? If we have this really fun kids class, white belt class, yellow belt class, some good green belts and stuff like that, that's great. Some good brown belts. But if the black belts are doing bad, that dojo dies. So, shodans, including the enlightened ones, it's not going well. This is bad. You need to check yourself. That's what I'm doing. We need to kind of, you know, like as Black belts, kind of remember where we're at. You know, I don't know, you guys go off into like wonderland, like I wonder what the hell you're doing. In your head, I'm like, what's going on with you? Have you forgot the basics? You lost heart? You know, like you lost fidelity, you lost your, yeah, you lost your heart. And you just go off into self. Look at the way, I mean, look at your mind. Look at what you've done. That's self. I don't care if you're a black belt, I don't care if you're an archon. If you go into self, I'd rather hang out with white belts than you.

0:07:06
Go self yourself.

0:07:07
Give yourself a selfie. So, no, yeah, this is not good. Arhants and Shodhans, you need to check yourself. I remember when Ramana Pashaya was giving us the advanced teachings and he was telling us, you know, here's how you become enlightened and that even when you're enlightened, your enlightened teacher kicks your ass. And I was like, what? Why? I'm enlightened. Oh, yes. Your enlightened teacher kicks your ass. Because your enlightened teacher is probably a higher belt rank than you. So what you call enlightenment, I called that 20 years ago. And if you don't recognize that, if you think your enlightenment is the end-all condition of everything, you're like, I'm enlightened now, so I don't have to listen to Sambara. I am higher than Krishna, higher than Padmasambhava. And there's the door. Go be that. You're higher than me, you don't need to be in my dojo. But are you kidding me? Like check yourself and remember that time where you were 100% and look at where you are now. You fucked up.

0:08:37
Arhan's too.

0:08:43
So you have to recognize where you're at. Like be honest. Even the Arhant. Come on. You know, even the Buddha, when he had Arhants, he's like, oh yes, you become, you know, an Arhant and it's all great. And then they all fucked up. He's like a man of knowledge, a person of knowledge, a they of knowledge, I don't know, anyway. A one of knowledge is impeccable. That means that you can be a beginner, intermediate, or enlightened, but you have to be impeccable. Impeccable is trouble. It's a problem. I don't care if you're enlightened. I don't give a shit if you're enlightened. I want you to be enlightened. But I want you to be impeccable. I want you to be an impeccable beginner. That's what I teach. And I love impeccable beginners. It's the best thing in the world. I want you to be an impeccable intermediate. I want you to be impeccable advanced. I want you to be impeccable enlightened. And if you don't have impeccability at any level, you're a pain in the ass. You're a mess. You know, you could see a beginner who's a mess and they can't get their life together, but you could see a beginner who's on fire. And you go, yes, and enlightenment is there and everything opens up and there's transformation. It's amazing. And then you can have an intermediate student who's working, discipline, all that, you know, like strength and all the Saturn return stuff. And like, everything's intense. And when they do it with impeccability, who's an intermediate impeccable?

0:11:10
Raise your hand.

0:11:11
Wait, I'm raising my hand, but no, come on, I was. I've worked hard. So did you. Come on, you should raise your hand. Okay, you guys are all thumbs up. Yeah, so no, for real. And then when you get to showdown, black belt, of course. You have to be impeccable. Impeccability is everything from beginning to end. And when you're enlightened and you go, I've reached the enlightened state. Now I can just do what I want. Fuck you. I got my black belt, so now I can go and create my own karate system called my way dough.

0:12:03
Fuck you.

0:12:04
You see people do that. They get a black belt in karate. Then maybe they get a black belt in judo and then they create my Kung Fu Taekwondo or something like that, right? I Kwon Do, whatever. And then I'm like, and I'm like, I've seen this so much in California. It's so fun. I'm 10th degree black belt in my kwan do. And I'm all, whoa, I'm like, go back to your first sensei, he'll kick your ass. He will kick your ass. You have a big idea, your own expression, but your first sensei will kick your ass. So you had this really cool idea of synthesizing this and that, whatever. Like, come on, if you had a real sensei, any one of your real senseis, will kick your ass, making up your own system. Come on, you're not a podmits and bob. I'm not either. I'm working a system, I'm in a structure, I'm in a dojo that was created by a master. And so you think you're a better master than my master? You think that you're better than Funakoshi? You know, it's like, I'm a student of a master. I'm working a system. You think you're a founder? You're better because you did whatever you did?

0:13:31
Fuck out of here.

0:13:32
You have a bad attitude. You guys are like so liberal. You need to be like more Donald Trump.

0:13:45
This is not political. But we need to build a wall.

0:13:49
I mean in Hawaii. I'm in Hawaii. We need to build a wall in Hawaii to keep the dolphins out. Isn't that racist? All right, so, but seriously, folks, showdowns. You need to wake up. So I want to talk about etiquette. You know, this arhant came to me and said, now, you know, when you become a shodan, I open things up. Like, I'm very, very, very, very, very, very liberal. I have to kind of let you go. I let you go and you come back and I punch you in the face. Yeah.

0:15:02
But I have to let you go a little bit.

0:15:07
Because, you know, you have to explore and open beyond me. And that's cool if you do it right. That's the case in every martial art or every spiritual school. It's the way. There's a place of focus and there's a place of release. So, you know, I have to release and I have to open you up and I point out things to you. I'm like, do this, do this, look at that, look at all these other weird things and see what you, see where you end up. But you have to be impeccable. Be impeccable. And then if you have impeccability, you can go through and be strong, be enlightened, be elevated and empowered. So there was, you know, this one shodan comes to me and says, he says, Silvara, you're not my teacher anymore. Like, I don't, I don't, you know, like you taught me to this level and now I don't like you as a teacher. And so I found this other teacher that you introduced me to or the circle of my, of your influence brought me to and I like that person better. And I was like, well then why do you live in Hawaii? Why do you come to all of my teachings? Why do you participate in my in my school? And also, everything that you do is from my teachings. I know that you might be fascinated by some other teacher, I don't care. A beginner, I'm like, this is an open school, a beginner student can come in and say, oh, I like Sambara, and they can go and study with any other teacher. I don't have that, right? You guys know that. You can be a student in my school, you can be a student of any other school, I don't care. But if you enter my dojo, you do respect this school. Do respect the school if you walk into my dojo with shoes on the mat You know if you walk in and you you Totally don't listen to the to my teachings. I will kick you out of my dojo get the fuck out of here I don't want you here If you're in my dojo you could go to a judo dojo and Aikido dojo, all sorts of anything else, but in my school, you must respect this school. If you can't do that, like, that would be a really cool spiritual person. I'd love it if you're really strong in many dojos, because that means that when you come to my dojo, you'll bring that power. But idiots, idiots, like spiritual idiots go, you're not my teacher. I'm like, what the fuck are you talking about? I'm like, you're gonna walk into my dojo and say, you're not my sensei. Are you a fucking idiot? Are you an idiot? And also, it's like, especially you showed on and Arhant, fuck you. It's like, you developed yourself so strong for years here and then all of a sudden you go, you're not my my sensei anymore i'm like well because you because you you found someone who does judo i do karate you like judo all of a sudden but i'm like and you get in a fight i'm like what i mean i could put you into a sparring match and where's your technique from that other teacher? They might be amazing. You might be like, oh wow, it's so incredible to watch them. They do wushu, they do judo. But when you get into a fight, what I see with you shodans and arhants who are all flaking out, what happens in a fight, you get down to these techniques. All I see is this. Say this one student who goes, you're not my teacher anymore. And I'm like, why do you live in Hawaii? I mean, that's a super powerful, mystical thing. Like, why are you following me here? Why do you come to my teachings? Why are you watching now? Fuck you. No, I'm telling you. I'm telling you. Fuck you.

0:20:39
Like wake up. Why are you here? Go fuck into anywhere else.

0:20:43
Sorry, that was personal. No, really, go anywhere else. If it's better, then leave. I know you're zooming in and talking to you. But leave.

0:21:01
I don't give a shit. Go away.

0:21:03
like 10 white belts who have beginner's mind than a hundred showdowns who are assholes. Get the fuck out of here. Right? I don't care. I don't care. I'm not trying to build an organization. I mean, I have an organization, but it's an organization of Dharma. And if I have showdowns who are the biggest fuck-ups in the whole organization. It caps everything. It bottlenecks everything. It stops everything. And fuck you. You are haunt. Fuck you. Fuck you. I mean, no, it's true. Fuck you is a, it's a, it's a, it's a mantra. It means something. But wake up. Wake up. So I'm like, are you serious? It's like, you come into my dojo, I teach you from white belt to black belt, you learn really strong techniques at work, and then all of a sudden you're like, well I met this judo sensei who I really like, and I don't like you anymore. I like judo. And I'm like, well, in a real fight, like, let me put you in a fight against a karate person, you know, a strong person or even a street fighter. Let me see how your new judo works. You spent years in this school developing skills. And then all of a sudden you like judo. Guess what? I mean, you're not a master of Judo. You spent years in this school. You're good. Okay, you're pretty good at these techniques. But these techniques is what I see you operating on. You like some new teacher. Great! Love it! Wonderful! I don't have a problem with that. Great! But are you a master of that school? How many years have you studied in that system? And all of a sudden you think you're well that's my you're you're not my sensei anymore he's my sensei come on well don't come to my dojo like you can love like you can get a black belt for me and then go to judo and love judo great happy happy go go enjoy judo but and and you know And I have many black belts in many different systems. If I go into a Jiu-Jitsu school, a karate school, I bring tremendous respect to that sense of it. That's the way you should be.

0:23:51
I don't care if you study,

0:23:53
if you're a beginner, intermediate, advanced, enlightened, I don't care what you do, but if you are going to interface with me and my school, it has to be with impeccability. You have to bring respect. And that's the thing. It's like, Arhans, if you say, I'm enlightened, I don't have to respect my enlightened teacher, and I read a book and go for some other teacher but there is this is where your honor comes down like you you need to really recognize what the fuck is going on I mean like this is such a I don't know it's a very Western thing it's like I'm gonna do what I want to do or maybe it's a millennial thing. I don't know. But it's weak in honor. So it's, I never say you can't, even for beginning students, I'm like, you can see any other teacher you want, but if you want to develop yourself, even in this school, you get, you know, you get your shirt on, or you become an arhant, well then, where's your heart?

0:25:19
Where's your integrity?

0:25:22
Like, are you gonna just like, do whatever the fuck you want, like, if you get a black belt, this thing happens a lot. Someone gets a black belt in karate, and they go, I got my black belt, and now I quit. Because I did it and that's a black belt and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And I'm like, have you ever been in a fight? If you get a black belt and you've never been in a fight, you'll get your ass kicked on a street fight. Even though you know how to go, fuck you.

0:25:54
That's nothing.

0:25:55
Getting a black belt is nothing. Showdown is nothing. Archon is nothing. Dragging it through a real powerful, intense situation where you gain power. I mean, that's what I've done. I mean, like, you don't get higher degree black belts unless you push it harder. Getting a black belt, I mean, like, a lot of us know how to get a black belt. Because a lot of us are black belts. Some of us are black belts, some of us are hunks.

0:26:32
First degree black belt?

0:26:33
Are you kidding me? I've seen so many first degree black belts get their asses kicked in a street fight. You guys don't know what a street fight is probably, but I was in the Guardian Angels, I know. And a lot of first degree black belts came in, they're all like, oh, I know all this technique and all this whatever. And then when it comes down to a street fight, I'm like, hmm. Yeah, so really. No, so street fight is reality. It's reality. And all this thinking is a whole bunch of bullshit. I am enlightened now! I'm a Bodom so I should do this. Get the fuck out of here. No, that's just bullshit. Like if you're so enlightened with your enlightenment, if you're so advanced with your shodhan-ness, then you should be strong in dharma. Not just... so here's the thing, I'm enlightened, dharma is shodhan, so I have to go and be in myself. No. If you're a great black belt, if you're a great enlightened person, you need to open. Do you know what I'm saying? Yeah, fuck you. It's true. That's what it is. I'm not kidding. You go, well now, let me shut on. I shut up I need to focus on my enlightenment now then I need to close down into my enlightenment fuck you do you think I closed down into my enlightenment I'm on camera I'm on zoom this could go on the internet this could become viral there are there's this asshole teacher right no I could I could have I could have someone record this who puts it on YouTube and says, this is the worst teacher in the world. He's evil. Look, he says fuck you to his students. No, no, this can go viral.

0:29:01
Yeah.

0:29:03
But I'm saying it to you because it's for real.

0:29:07
Come on.

0:29:09
You know, I take all risks.

0:29:12
But, come on, stop it.

0:29:18
This is wrong. You guys are false.

0:29:22
Wrong. Poor.

0:29:26
Mediocre. And, Arhant, fuck you. You're wrong. You need to wake up. This is one Arhan.

0:29:38
You're not my teacher anymore. I found this other teacher.

0:29:42
I'm like, well, why do you keep, why do you follow me to Hawaii? Why do you keep coming to my classes? If that's your teacher, if that's your idea, go away. I don't give a shit. I don't care at all. Go. Anyone can go at any time. I'm not a cult leader. Get the fuck out of here if you don't like this. And this I'm like, I'm like, you like that other teacher? Cool. Like I'm inspired by new martial arts moves that I learned. I'm like, cool. I like it. I've been doing martial arts all my life. I'm impressed by things that work, things that are strong, things that I'm elevated by.

0:30:34
I'm like, wow, cool.

0:30:36
But I bring really deep respect to every dojo that I go to. This is a dojo. If I go to a karate dojo, I respect it. I respect the sensei. If I go there then I respect it. And I might get a lot out of a judo dojo. I respect that dojo. And I might be enthusiastic more about a judo dojo. When I come to my karate dojo I bring integrity. Maybe I got a little bit more martial arts skill from Judo but when I come to my karate school I bring that and I enhance that. It's not a separation, right? It's like I was doing karate, good karate sensei, good karate sensei, and then I found this really good judo teacher and I learned so much more. And then when I come to my karate dojo, my sensei, who's a high level belt ranking above me, if here's Shodan and Akhans, if what that person taught me is so real and powerful, I will share it with my sensei. I will share it with my school in a way that it works. That's what you gotta do. I'm like, you want to do better? You want to do better than me? You want to do something left and right? I'm cool with that, but in my dojo, follow my teachings. Or, if you have something better, I mean, bring it to me, because I'm a martial artist. You're like, you know, your technique like this is stupid. But if you do this and And I go, oh, if I realize that, I go, oh, well, then I will change it. If you can bring it better than me, anyone think you can beat me in a fight, I will tear you apart. Like, no, seriously, maybe that one, but no, I'll tear you apart in a fight. So it's like, you want to tell me? No, you guys, no, I've been in a hundred fights or over a hundred fights, guardian angels and street fights, knives, guns. I've been shot at. So I'm like, you think you can beat me in a fight? I'm a sensei. I'm like, and I'm a warrior. And you, if you want to come up to that level, and you want to fight me, I'll fight any one of my students and I'll beat them with love. No, seriously. My last MMA fight was no hurt. No hurt, just beating people harmlessly. So I'm like, no! He might beat me.

0:34:12
Now it's pretty strong.

0:34:13
But I'm pretty sure...

0:34:14
So, no, but I'm serious, like, come on!

0:34:15
I'm serious.

0:34:16
Like, come on, are you serious? Alright, I'm looking around the room. Let's go to the next meditation song. Now we're going to focus on the harp.

0:34:55
the Yeah. So, thank you. So, So, So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So. So. So. so So the the the the the the the So, So, thank you. So so So So so You Shodons, share. Karate, dojo, black belt, share. It's really a natural thing. It's like, if I know something, I'm strong, I want to share it. But you have to share it right. So all shodons share. There's enlightened shodons and unenlightened shodons, and they all share. And the enlightened ones?

0:47:37
Maybe there's some other good dimensions, but there's some unenlightened Shodons who are super strong in yoga. They're very useful. So it's like their sharing is stronger. There could be some enlightened Shodons who are like, and you're like, I don't know what you're talking about this this is where I come down to martial arts martial arts is like what can I figure out for this person so if you're a shodan be strong if you're an enlightened shodan be stronger bring your enlightenment into that strength something useful to someone I mean if you're enlightened and it's fun when people are enlightened they go I'm like no no no no no no no no no no I'm really glad that you're enlightened but we bring it into our dojo into our school structure into impeccability. Because people could become enlightened on their own, sitting in a cave in India or something like that, and they're like,

0:48:57
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.

0:48:58
And I'm like, that's cool. Cool for you.

0:49:01
Cool for you.

0:49:02
But we're a dojo.

0:49:04
We're a school. And so if someone becomes enlightened, when someone becomes enlightened, it has to integrate it doesn't like if it disperses if you're enlightened or shodan and you're like I'm just first my energy into some other places then you say that's in your heart in your in your honor you say fuck you to the place where it came from and I'm cool with that. You can go fuck yourself up everywhere. But I would rather deal with... I mean, I brought you up to that point. And if you wanted to say fuck you to me, then go away. But I would rather deal with beginners than you. Or haunt assholes. Or showdown assholes. Wake up. That's what I'm telling you. I'm like, you know, you're little, little, little baby black belts to me. I'm like, and if you give up, give up and leave. And I will work with, I will work with, I would like to work with white belts rather than you. Fuck you and you fucked up and it's dishonorable and get out if that's the way that you want to go. And sometimes that's the way that people have got to go. There's a lot of stories of some spiritual guy who's with some spiritual guru and they hated their guts and created their own system. Go create your own system, fuck you, and it's not my fault. It's your fault. So if you've been here for years, studying this system, and you hate it, and you need to do your own thing, you hate this system that brought you to this level, you don't like anymore. Fuck you. I'm going to say it right now, once and for all, and this is cutting it all off. You. Fuck you. And get the fuck out of my school. Otherwise, respect my school. And respect me properly. Because if you don't respect your teacher, get the fuck out of this place. I don't want a lot of students. I could have 12 white belts. I'll be happy. I will give them everything. You remember that? Don't you remember when I gave you everything? And now you're like, well, it's the other books that I read and this other teacher. Get the fuck out of here. Get the fuck out. Is that, that's your fidelity? That's what you, that's what you mean? Is that what you meant to me? Get the fuck out of here. Fuck you. I mean like, no, seriously. I mean, I have no attachment. I have the best long-term students for all my life, but I'm like, get out of here. Get out of here. If you're if that's if you if that is the barrier of your consciousness Even as an enlightened student leave me go away. I don't want to deal with you anymore Do you know how much work that is for me? the enlightened students Like you're enlightened Like oh if you're so enlightened you're so high, go and do your own, create your own karate school and see how it works. Cause, are you kidding me? No, it's happened before. People are like, well, I'm super enlightened so I can create my own karate school. Like, do you know what it took for me to make this because there's some moderately liberated students who had the idea to do something like this. They couldn't pull it off. Now, all showdowns... Hey, wake up! Come on, stop! Hey, okay, wake up, wake up. Don't, don't go to sleep. Okay, all Sherlons in my school are fully empowered except for the Hungarians. In US, I give them all the empowerments, fully empowered, same as me. I taught you everything I know, but I get good at it. I'm like, all right, so I taught you, at first we just taught punching and kicking, and then I taught you stick, and I taught you sword. So I'm a master of sword. I'm a master of all these arts.

0:54:15
So I'm like, hungry, you guys just got the basic teachings.

0:54:20
I will give you more advanced teachings. I'll give you the empowerments next time. But hungry, you need to follow the structure of the Sangha. If you don't follow the structure of the Sangha, I can't help you. I can't give you the higher empowerments. If you don't listen I mean here's the thing oh my gosh is it is it is it really this this lame that I have to tell you guys this Nick we have to respect our structures we have to respect Ananda Lola we have to bring a lot of respect and care. It's not an easy thing. It's not on your choice. And, and, and also hungry. You can't just expect that you got your advanced teaching and now everything has to work out your way. Fuck you. Listen to the, I created a structure. It's the temple. The structure is the temple. And if you say, I'm not going to listen to the person who is in the hierarchy above me because now I'm, you know, a showdown. Fuck you. Fuck you. I'll say fuck you to you. I'll say fuck you to the enlightened students because I can do that. So, no. Listen. Every hierarchy means something. That's part of my temple. And if you break that, I will break you. I will blow you up. So, don't do that. that I've created. That's the structure for a temple. Here in America too. But you Hungarians are fucking it up. You need to listen to the person in the structure who is above you, and you need to listen to them. You're like, I got the advanced teachings, I don't have to listen to anyone. I got a show on, so I don't have to listen to anyone. Fuck you. I'm an eighth degree showdown. I will beat the shit out of you. All of you. Anyone want to step up? No, of course not. And we have some high degree black belts in the room here. Anyone, anyone want to step up hungry to me? No, because that's what you're doing. If you say, I don't like it. Drama is a bad person. He has short hair. Fuck you. You are saying that to me. And I will come over and say, what? And you'll go but that's that's the thing it's like um Brahma is an emissary of me. He's my he he and I have a connection where he brings my energy and if you react towards towards that, then you're reacting towards me. Stop it. This is my dojo, my school. And it doesn't mean that I am the one there. It means that I have a network of souls. If you don't react towards him properly, then you're transgressing me in my spirit and in my heart. So fix it, Hungry, fix it. Do you think I'm being too pushy? Showdowns, showdowns. So I wanna fix it at the top, showdowns. If you, you guys are great. You guys are the most advanced students. Many of you are enlightened, but you can fuck up, enlightened or not enlightened. Showdowns are fully empowered, not in hunger yet, because you guys haven't gotten the empowerment. Next time I'm there, you're gonna get a bunch of empowerment. If you do a good job, but in America, I'm like, what the fuck are you guys doing? But you're gonna get it. It's gonna come in the next probably year of my teachings, I'm gonna give you the full empowerment of enlightenment because you are shut arms and you deserve it. But you have to figure it out. You know, these are enlightened teachings. You can't take them. I mean, if you're mad at your leader, who I've empowered to be your leader, and and you disrespect them and you have a different opinion, then fuck you, you're in my dojo. So don't do that.

1:00:08
Listen to Brahma.

1:00:09
I have a tremendous connection to him and I'm saying, listen to him. And if you don't listen, you go, well now I'm his shout on, I don't have to listen to him. No, you do. And also in this school, in America, we have to listen to everybody at every level. So there's some people who are at all certain levels of doing different things. So some people are, we're in Anangaloa, and they're doing design. I've listened to their design. I believe it because they do a really impeccable job. We do martial arts here and I don't do karate, jujitsu so much anymore, but I have these really strong black belts who I trust and I see their students going up. So I'm like there's all sorts of things, oh gosh, you guys.

1:01:16
So, hungry.

1:01:18
Listen, we have to follow that structure of the organization. You have to follow it. You can't say, I do whatever I want. Even if our hunts say, I do whatever I want, I will kick their ass. So in Hungary, you got the Kala Chakra empowerment. It's not a free pass. It's not the, I mean, it's not the only way it's like, we're in school, show me, show me your karate, show me your kick, show me your punch. I'm for real. So don't just and don't use I got the enlightened teachings. I'm an arhant. I'm a shodan. Don't use that to say an excuse for ego. Fuck you. I'll call you on it. I'll bring it up to you. I'll bring it up to you, put it on the table, open it up and then throw it in the toilet.

1:02:28
That's who you're dealing with.

1:02:32
Are you serious? You wanna be 100% with me? Fuck you. I will burn you in the light of Nirvana. No, really, anyone, no, please, if you're angry at me, if you're troubled with me saying this stuff Come on one-on-one and some of you ST3s fuck you I will burn you in the fire of Nirvana And if you want to run for me and fuck you you're dishonorable Then you can run as a dishonorable rat or Talk to me. I will, I mean like, ST3s, am I not your online teacher? And you want to just run away because, well I like this Judo teacher better. Well fuck you. Or come to me. Show me, show me how that Judo technique is stronger. Are you kidding me?

1:03:34
Show me.

1:03:35
You're like, oh Finn this really Judo, this Judo teacher is so cool! I like it so much! Like, I like Judo. Judo is cool. But you have to face your teacher. If you want to run away from your teacher, face your teacher. Have some honor. I will honorably discharge you if you can honorably talk to me. I don't care if it's 3, 4, 5. But this is a dojo. This is a school of enlightenment. You can't come into some school and say, um, I'm kind of like wishy-washy. I'll do a little judo, a little taekwondo, little karate. You don't do that in a real school, right? And and Shodans, are you kidding me? You can't do that. You know, I give a lot of openings for Shodans to learn other things. I learned a lot of other things, but I'm like, you want to mess around? It doesn't work. So, seriously, what do you want to do? You can leave completely. I don't care. I don't have no attachment. If you think that's better for you There's the door as as Rama used to say there's the door Get the fuck out of here. I don't care, but don't stay No, don't like hang out in my dojo trying to teach people judo Kind of like Judo better. Well, then go do Judo. There, maybe there's good Judo dojos. I don't care. If I got you to black belt, and you go to Judo, I don't care. Good. Good for you. I'm happy. But if you got a black belt, that doesn't mean you're a master. I will. I'm a master, I will develop, I'm, you know, and even in physical fights, I've been in over 100 physical fights, 11 knife fights, I've been shot at. Like, I'm, like, I mean, that's martial arts, but I'm like It's true.

1:06:23
And then you guys are like, I've never been in a fist fight.

1:06:26
I'm like, well, I've been in a lot of fist fights. And then, and I'm in spirituality. I'm for real. So, I want showdowns to share, to teach. There's some Shodons who are enlightened, there's some who are not enlightened. But even some that are not enlightened are much more yogically developed. You could be enlightened without knowing anything about yoga. You could be like, I came in and like, and I don't know anything, but then we can also have some seriously strong yogis. This is the same with Buddha. Buddha has many stories of this. He's like, I've got these yogis who are super strong and powerful and make a big difference. um said all the Buddhist monks because he was rich he wasn't enlightened and then there was some stupid enlightened person who couldn't make any money he's like and he's like well what matters more yeah so we have some yogis who are super strong And what they do matters and it's enlightening matters. And I don't care if they're not liberated.

1:08:04
They create a more enlightened effect.

1:08:06
I'm like, what would I rather have? Some person goes, oh, thank you Buddha. Or Anapatantika. That guy made hundreds of thousands of Buddhist monks eat. Right? I'm like, I'm on his side. I'm like, fuck that enlightened guy. I mean, if that's what you're going to be, if your enlightenment is going to be your enlightenment, fuck you. Good for you. I'll throw you out and you can be enlightened on your own. But I'm a school. I'm a dojo. I'm and a patentica. I'm a, it's like, you- if you're not gonna be here to play, and you just wanna do your own enlightenment thing, then, great! I want you to be enlightened, and get the fuck out. This is a dojo. Got a black belt? Got a black belt. I'm a black belt. I'm a black belt now, so I'm gonna do whatever the fuck I want, cause I'm a black belt. I got my black belt now I could quit it. I'm like you got your black belt get in a street fight and get your ass kicked. Black belt doesn't mean you're a great martial artist. Rommel used to talk about you can get a black belt which is cool but he's like but is that a martial artist and he's like a martial artist will walk into an alley against, he said this in San Francisco, against a guy with a baseball bat who just got out of San Quentin. And a martial artist come through that fight. A black belt will get their ass kicked. I'm like, oh, oh. Do you know, you just don't know reality. No, I did that. No, I was in street fights with baseball bats. And I did have an actual fight on Polk and Henry in San Francisco, where a guy had a baseball bat. I've been in a lot of fights. I've been in 11 knife fights. You guys are like babies to me in martial arts. Babies! Some of you kicked my ass, but babies. No, seriously. You guys are babies to me in martial arts. Like I've been in over 100 fights. I've been in 11 knife fights, 11 facing me and a guy and a knife. And a lot of times with a baseball bat too. Yeah, but there was this one time, Polk and Henry, and walked into this alley, and there was this big ass dude with a baseball bat. We're all were were were were and then he swung at me. I moved in. Jiu-jitsu, a little karate and kung-fu. Yeah but it's for real. I mean like have you ever been in a real fight? A knife fight? A baseball bat fight? No I have been there and so when you guys talk about me me me me me me about spirituality I'm like what the fuck are you talking about? you guys like even Archons baby talk to me. I'm like, you're silly. You think I don't know anything? You think I mean I'm a jolly person. I'm very jolly. But come on, are you serious? When at a place of mediocre practice, and you're gonna come to me and say, well, here's the idea that I have, what do you wanna learn? I'm like, are you serious?

1:12:35
You don't know what's going on.

1:12:36
You're talking to me, and I'm not a wishy-washy person. I'm a strong, powerful, focused, impeccable person in everything that I do. Are you impeccable?

1:12:49
Wish you were.

1:12:50
When you come to me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me. No, fuck you. That's what I'm talking about. You are weak. You guys are not impeccable. You guys are being big goofballs. You can't come to a sensei and say, well, I think my punch is better than yours. Are you kidding me? Come to me with that. Please come to me with, no, any one of you, and maybe some of you are going to be strong, but no, come to me with, no, in martial arts. I'm ready to test it. I'll take a punch from you. You take a punch from me. No, martial arts I'll test it. But also, if you don't recognize that when I teach what I'm doing here, that's... I mean, like, if you need to test me on martial arts, I'm willing to do that physically. Someone who's bigger, stronger, I'm willing to say, I'll show you something that you have no idea about. Because I'm still at that level in my physical martial arts, but in my spiritual martial arts, I'm way, way, way, way, way, way, way, way, way, way, way higher. Anyone who wanted to test that? We can do it right now. You guys are bad. Showdown's bad. Weak. Weak. It's not good. You're not doing well, showdance. It's weak. It's messed up. It's all over the place. You don't know what the fuck's going on.

1:15:00
You're confused.

1:15:01
Enlightened showdance also.

1:15:04
You're confused.

1:15:07
Now, in this school, I like people to teach. I like, I mean in a dojo, we always, there's the sensei who's way up there, but then the sensei has students who teach classes. I want that to happen, that's a normal structure, but I need my, I need my shirt on, my black belts to be all over the place. I really want to focus this on a dojo etiquette. It's like you walk into a dojo and if every black belt has a different idea, what are you gonna do? You're gonna get confused, right? No, every black belt needs to focus on the primary skills of the school and develop those things. If you don't do that, then you hurt the student. You might be exploring your own nirvana. You're like, oh, I'm really cool at spinning hook kicks. I'm like, white belts can't do spinning hook kicks. You might like it a lot. You can demonstrate it to show them something cool, but you can't try to just be like, well, karate is all about spinning hook kicks because that's what I'm doing right now. No, you have to meet people where they are at. You have to meet people where they are at. You can't just go, I can go into super high states of mind and go blah blah blah blah blah blah all sorts of weird high states of intention I could talk about it from that place but I wouldn't help you I'm like everything is late and everything is blah blah blah blah blah but no no I'm coming down to talk to you where you're at here and now and you have to put it together at this level of attention so that you can be strong. Shut-ons are Hans. You are off. So you need to be able to talk to people where they're at. If you're a showdown, especially if you're an R-Hunt, you need to be super strong that where is an intermediate student at or a beginning student at, and I need to talk to them and meet with them and bring them up from that place. Because if I learned a lesson from that, then I should be able to teach them to bring them higher.

1:18:10
Right? That's what we're trying to do.

1:18:12
We're not just trying to just make ourselves the highest. Of course, we're trying to be enlightened, but we're enlightened not just for ourselves, we're enlightened for our people everyone in the room. Oh my god you guys are like asleep. You guys are like asleep. I'm trying to wake you up but you guys are like ehhhh. Someone's just saying words. I'm not bored by it. I need it. I need them to be able to clear their mask. I need the white belt to learn the basic technique.

1:19:14
I need it.

1:19:15
Like, it's real. It's as real as it was for me. It's a beginning thing, but it's a really important beginning thing. And you guys are all, I don't know, I'm just saying. You get into a synthesized condition of awareness where you think all this stupid bullshit. Fuck you. Wake up. I don't know if you guys are gonna do it. You know, Samurais are saying weird things to us. But I don't need to. And if you wash out, that's your decision. And it's dishonorable. Because I am honorable. Everything that I say to you is honorable from the heart. And if you wash out because of your ignorance or your ego, you fucked up. It's not me. You're like, well, Zubar's teachings, I don't like them anymore. It's American, like this guy on the internet. I'm like, if that's the case, I'm telling you, that's dishonorable and you fucked up with me call it what you will but I'll tell you that's the truth I'm telling you that to wake the fuck up I mean I have to say it you can you can do whatever you want but if you fuck up with me there's a karma to that you could be a arhant know a whole different system and say I've evolved beyond beyond Sombhara I'm like well if I agree with that well I will support that but no as it is right now you're dishonorable to this lineage and towards me You're coming into my dojo and saying I'll teach you guys some judo Like because I found this cool judo teacher. I'm like are you serious? Is that the etiquette I've ever told you no no I'd love you to do judo outside of my karate dojo whatever But don't bring it in here. You have to come into your heart. Where did we start? Where were we? And then all of a sudden, you're like, Ooh, somebody's karate is wrong and this judo is right. It's not right and wrong. I mean, I know judo too. I'm working a system. I'm working a system. And you're like, yeah, I'm a factor. Go fuck off. But you fuck off. That's what you want to do. So, um, sorry. That was personal. To personal persons. Yeah, so you can't come into my dojo, Shodons, and start saying, well this Judo technique will work. What are you talking about? I was very careful with my students to get them to the Shodon level. Do you guys remember? I'm so careful, careful, careful, careful. Treya with her students, she's super careful, careful, careful, careful. Because that's what it takes to make someone get to that level. It takes care. It's like this kata is the only kata. This technique is the only technique. They have to be 100% in that. If a Shodan says, well, there's this other technique I learned in Judo, you fucked the person up. It has to be one way. This is mysticism. It has to be one way for them to develop. If you tell someone, here's the Aikido way, here's the Judo way, here's the Karate way, they're going to be like stupid ass freaks. They can't learn anything. It has to be one way. Do you guys not understand that? Come on Shodan, are you so fucking stupid? That's what you learned. You learned one way. And if you don't support that way, you draw away from it, because now you're a showdown, you can do all sorts of things, and you're like, oh I'm going to show you this and this and this and this. You fuck that person up. Bring it all back to the core, fundamental, root teachings. Showdowns. Don't confuse people just because, you know, it's like, I can be a black belt and go, whoa, I learned this cool spinning hook kick. I'm going to teach my white belts this kick because I'm good at it and I like it. It's too much for them. They need to learn all sorts of things before they're ready for that. I know you're not senseis, but showdowns. Follow your sensei. Follow the traditional way of teaching shit. Otherwise, you teach them something too soon. They won't respect it, they won't respect the power, even if they can do it. Mostly, they can't do it. 90% they can't do a spinning hook kick as a white belt. And you're like, well, I'm a black belt.

1:25:17
I can do it. So I want to show it to you

1:25:18
because it's the coolest thing to me.

1:25:21
Stop it.

1:25:22
Look at where they're at. Look at the traditional teachings and develop them that way. Don't mess around. This is where you create horrible karma for yourself. You teach wrong, you mess up big. It creates karma, tremendously bad karma for the teacher. Don't do it! Don't mess up. I'd also like to say, besides being it and teach people at their level you did intro teachings perfectly but now that your showdowns or your arhants you go fucking crazy I'm like stop it like chill out oh my gosh you guys like the sangha is upside down and it's upside down because of shodans and in and archons and if you guys continue this it'll wreck but i won't let it wreck because i will stomp you i will this is my dog i mean i'm just doing my job but i have to call it out. Even advanced students, even enlightened students, this is not right. Stop it. Stop it, check yourself. Get back to the basics. Don't just be all, blah, blah, blah, which reminds me of the next step. You know, I give Arhant and Shodan's a bigger perspective. I was very, very, do you guys remember how careful I was with you? Careful, careful, careful. So when there's bigger things bigger than this dojo don't share those things with beginning students and intermediate students don't show that don't share that with Bodoms I'm sharing that with you guys because I have to let you go you have to kill the Buddha sometimes I'm like oh thanks for killing the Buddha that's a big pain in the ass for me you idiot you know this whole thing kill the Buddha meet the Buddha this is the same thing meet the Buddha on the path got to kill the Buddha got to kill enlightenment as being there's this enlightened teacher somewhere and then now I have to destroy that ideas that I can become enlightened and I'm like yeah for sure you can become enlightened I never had that problem with my teacher who was way enlightened, but then some of my students have to do that with me. Yeah, yeah, some for myself. So I have to kill that conception. I'm like, ouch, thanks. Yeah, okay, cool.

1:28:41
You gotta go through your own little trip

1:28:43
and get angry at me and break me down. I'm like, actually, you know, the whole time that I had my teacher. I didn't break him down and say kill the Buddha I loved him. I'm like you can either kill or love and so for all of you who kill fuck you My middle fingers fuck you fuck you

1:29:05
Cuz that's what you did to me

1:29:07
It's true and also it's all cool with me. It's pain, but that's the energy. You could have been like, instead of killing the Buddha, I love the Buddha. You could have done that, but you decided fuck you and you gave me that energy and I accept it, but also fuck you. You guys understand what's going on? You don't need to do that. I mean, with my teacher, I loved my teacher the whole time through my enlightenment.

1:29:46
I got so much light from that.

1:29:54
But you could also say, I disagree with my teacher. I mean, you hit your teacher with this, I disagree energy, and I'm like, okay, if that's what you gotta do, I'll sit there through it, but fuck you. And then at the end of the day, I'm like, let's get on the dojo mat and see what works. You're like, your punch doesn't work, so I have a better punch that works. Well then show me. Are you serious? Do you guys get this? No? You're like, we do whatever we want. We do whatever we think. It comes down to reality though. So I respect you developing yourself. Pain in the ass, as you are. I want you to develop yourself. So I teach the way that I learned, which is I didn't have to kill the Buddha. I respected the Buddha, just like a sensei. If you're an idiot about a sensei, you're going to do stupid things. And then if you get tested by that sensei, you will find you're wrong. You're like, Oh, I really like judo now. I'm really into judo. I found this cool judo sensei. Well, cool. Go to them for 25 years. And then maybe you can beat me. But you can't beat me now, even though you're super inspired by judo. Do you know that? Do you guys get that? Idiots. Idiots. Surrounded by idiots. Enlightened idiots. Showdown idiots. I really respect the beginners and the show- and the Bodons. Because they have beginner's mind. They have beginner's mind. And showdowns are like, I can't do yoga anymore because I have to do my enlightenment. And then arhats are like, well I'm enlightened now so I can do anything.

1:32:09
Fuck you.

1:32:11
No, fuck you. You're an idiot. There's a lot of enlightened idiots. Buddha had a lot of stories of enlightened idiots. They became enlightened but then they were idiots they made mistakes they killed themselves sometimes they're like oh i don't need my body you're like what the fuck and buddha was like but it was like well they're enlightened and they're beyond karma and shit like that but that was fucking stupid no it's it's like you could become enlightened and go into hell. Enlightenment doesn't mean that you're like in heaven. It doesn't mean that you're like, oh everything's fine. It means that you have to be impeccable and even more in enlightenment. In enlightenment, you can't, it's just a more direct connection with life. And life sucks. Life's hard. Life's difficult. But also life's beautiful. That's what enlightenment is. So it's like, you don't just go, unenlightenment, and now I'm on a cloud with some wings and a halo. Like, that's the Christian idea. But it's, that's not what it is. Enlightenment means that you're more awake to reality, and reality sucks. It's hard. No, it is. And it's also transcendentally beautiful. But it's like your enlightenment opens you up to that reality that is bigger and it's bigger. It's bigger than the self. It's bigger than what you don't like and what you like. It's way big. And when you open up to that enormousness, you could go, Holy shit, I'm super sad.

1:34:08
My, my, my.

1:34:09
And enlightened people can get depressed and kill themselves. It happened in Buddha's time.

1:34:14
And now it's worse.

1:34:15
But the thing that we teach here is to be impeccable. If you're enlightened, things can suck, things can be good, it doesn't matter. What matters is that you're impeccable. So if you're a showdown, be impeccable. If you're a beginner, be impeccable. We learn impeccability. And if you do that, whether you're a beginner or enlightened, you are in bliss and empowerment and upliftment. That's what spirituality is. But if you're enlightened, you can get, oh, I'm sad. Of course, being enlightened is a bigger disposition of un-clarity. It's a bigger disposition of sensitivity to the world. It's like my heart opened and all of a sudden now the whole world is coming in, the whole universe. It's not easy. Being enlightened isn't like Obviously the best thing in the universe being enlightened is that You open to the universe. Are you ready for that? Like I hope that you know you you develop yourself up to that point But when it happens it happens and it's for real. It's like death death is for real and when an enlightenment happens to you you have to be like I mean if you help yourself up to that point death definitely isn't going to help. But if if you get to enlightenment it's like a big big big deal and you have to like I guess I'm saying, I don't know. And showdowns, you have to have, you have to follow my etiquette about how you deal with beginners and intermediate students. You can't just be all, oh, you know, Samvara gave the enlightened students a book to read, so I'll give it to you because I like the book. You're not at the same level. I give stardons a big, broad teaching so that they can move ahead and so they can figure stuff out their way but remember when you're in when you're an intermediate or beginning student with me I am super structured. Do you guys remember that? It's not that I'm like oh yeah you can do whatever you want I mean of course anyone can have any teacher I don't care you can have a different teacher but if you're in my dojo especially beginning and intermediate I have a very narrow structure right you guys all know that so then when you become a shodan you can't be like whoa you know there's this book by Sahaja that I thought was good and you give it to someone that help them. Stick to my teachings. This is my dojo. In the beginning, I teach a kata. In my beginning, I teach a certain thing. If you're a Shodan, you know more, because you're interested, because you learned something, don't just start dishing it out. Like, oh, because blah blah blah blah blah. I'm like no. If it's a showdown, maybe. Or if it's under my jurisdiction, sure. I teach, I brought my students, even beginner students, to so many teachers in India or in America. It's just that it's under my jurisdiction where it's all in my thing, you don't just do it on your own. Do you understand that? Do you guys get that? Like, show it on? Seriously? You don't understand that? You're like, oh, I found this weird spiritual book here. Or this is one that Sambara said, this is cool for black belts to read. It's for enlightenment. No, no, no. When I teach a book to a beginner or an intermediate student, it's a living teaching. And if you teach a book because you're a showdown or even an arhant, like,

1:39:24
do you know what you're doing?

1:39:26
No, you don't. It's the arhant books or the showdown books are higher level. You don't just share that because you've got some insight and you want to share that with a white belt. You don't do that. It's like saying, I learned this jumping spinning hook here. Check it out. No, come on. If you're a showdown, you got to get to the root. I mean look at the root of the teachings. I was very moderate and careful with you. You can't just start sharing books and teachers and things and this and dimensions and ideas. You can't just share it because it's exciting to you. You have to say, what is the basics? I mean, don't you know that's what I did with you to make this happen? I built you on basics and it was boring to me. It was, you know, I'm like, you know, it was like, I was a black belt and I'm teaching white belts. So it's not, I'm not sitting there going, but let me show you all this cool stuff that I can do. No, I was like, where you are at? Like when I'm teaching scuba diving,

1:40:48
you are at.

1:40:49
Like when I'm teaching scuba diving, I'm like, I could take my mask off, open my eyes, exhale from my nose, clear my mask, it's easy. But every time I taught someone who had trouble taking their mask off, I was there. I wasn't just like, oh, this is easy, and you can't do it. I was like right there in the beginning basics and I'm and I work through it with you. A lot of dive masters get totally bored. Oh my god it's another beginner who can't take their mask off so they're stupid. No, no one's stupid. Everyone can take their mask off. Everyone can learn meditation. Everybody can become enlightened. But you have to have that... Do you guys understand what's going on? You guys stop being idiots. Be like, I want Shodans to share, but don't share wrong. Because it messes people up. up yeah like Tara we were in Turks and Caicos her like I was a dive master and then I was not an instructor so she had this instructor was teaching her and he was like he's like you can't do it you suck he's like I can do it because I'm a water sign what was he Scorpio same as you I'm a Scorpio too. But he was...

1:42:31
But he was French.

1:42:33
Yeah, but anyway, and then I yelled at the dive company. I said, you guys are wrong. And then they were like, well, she can't do it. And I'm like, no, she can do it. I'm like, I'm a dive master. And they're like, well, blah, blah, blah.

1:42:55
I'm like, no.

1:42:56
And then she did it. She became a diver on that trip. And then became a dive master. So it's like, if you listen to first asshole, don't be that first asshole. That's what I'm telling you guys. Don't be an asshole. Don't shut people down. That one dive teacher totally was shutting down and then you know I yelled at them. They gave her, what's the name David? Miles! Okay yeah Miles and Miles was he was super chill and and then everything opened up. And then she became a dive master. If she listened to the first teacher, it would shut her down. So I know that we all want to open things up, but we have to do it in the right way. I mean the first dive master, he wanted to teach her. He was just an idiot. But that's what you guys are doing.

1:44:03
It's true.

1:44:05
If you are an idiot and you know what you're doing and you're an idiot, you can shut people down. You guys savvy to that? What I'm teaching Shardons, I'll teach you guys at a higher level because in America you're fully empowered. Hungary, you're not fully empowered, you just got the basic enlightenment empowerment, so just get a little bit of that. But also in Hungary, when I come back I'm going to start giving you the advanced teachings which are beyond just enlightenment. They're the things of how to have the empowerments and all the magic and mysticism. So I'm going to give you that, but you're not there yet. But the Americans are fully empowered. So you can be the asshole scuba instructor, or you can be the scuba instructor that opens you to becoming a divemaster.

1:45:28
And so, I don't want assholes. No!

1:45:36
This is my mudra. None of these. Yeah, so we need to be aware, careful. We need to know where we're at. We need to be mindful and supportive. We need to know our system, our style, our strength. You wanna do whatever you wanna do. You can do it anywhere else, but if you're in my dojo, do it right. You have to have the right respect. I mean, if you're in a dojo and you don't, you're like, you might be a 50 feet black belt in judo. You walk to a karate dojo, and if you don't show respect to that sensei then quit leave get out or that sensei will throw you out. Like but I know everything about martial arts because I know judo. Get the fuck out of my dojo. Do you think you know more? You think you're better? You think you have a better place? Then go go to that better place. You know more? Go to that other place. It's ridiculous. Don't walk into- don't come into this dojo if you think you're better than it or whatever. Get out of here. Fuck you. Now, I think it's important to not push it. So, we have a lot of Arhans and it's like there's a there's a thing that happens for a period of time where if you do a transmission you feel that energy come up and the shock can come out and you could feel pretty high because of it. Like I personally feel highest when I meditate by myself because I'm very strong and I've done this for a long time but there's a certain rush of energy that happens when you bring the Kundalini up and you bring the Shakti out which is a transmission and if you do a transmission you can get high on transmissions and you can like it but you need to really look at the transmissions that you're giving and you need to understand what they are. I don't know how to explain it but like if I give a transmission to me it's a big deal. It's a lot of energy. I'm really really really good at it. It's intense but I've done transmissions, you know, Shiva talked about it too. He's like, when I would meditate, after Rama kicked him out, he was like, I would take off my ring and my watch and take off my shoes and sit like Rama would sit. And he was like, and then he's like, and then it felt like when I would sit with my teacher. And I would call that naive and reckless, because that was the beginning for him. And I would say, for my students, don't be naive and don't be reckless. Like, if you're going to give a transmission, you know, you're working with the dimensions of the school. So, of course, you know, for him, he had to do some little things that he had to act like Rama would act but you don't have to but you have to really really really feel the Dharma and if you really feel the Dharma then give a transmission but don't do it just because you like Meditate on your own and like that. Because I got a lot of Shodans and a lot of Arhams. So I don't need everyone teaching all the time. Like you have to look at it, like in a dojo, you're like, this other black belt was teaching this white belt something intense. And now I'm gonna go right over and go,

1:50:01
boom, boom, boom, boom.

1:50:04
Let me teach you how to block by punching you in the face 10 times. No, right? You can't overdo it. You have to see the structure. The sensei gives a structure of teaching. And then the sensei has black belts who go and support the teachings. But so the sensei might give an intense teaching, and then a black belt might give an intense teaching. And if 10 black belts in one week give the same intense teaching, they're like, it's too much. You guys understand too much. Don't do too much. Do you know that I never give too much. I always focus on moderation. So, really, look at my teaching, which is a lot, understand it, Chodans and Arhants, and understand that when I teach, it's for a reason. I don't just teach for the hell of it. You know, and, you know, in the beginning, I didn't understand that I learned it a little bit but like you know look at um you know Agni Kala a lot of you kind of understand there's this one time where she was like yeah me and three students we went to this desert trip with Agni Kala and we go to the Anzaburgo Desert he brings us out and he had so much everything where he's he sat in the first meditation for six hours and she was like oh it's kind of hard for me because I'm old he's like but if I couldn't meditate so perfectly I couldn't keep up but he meditated perfectly because he's an enlightened master. But his students washed out. All three of his students quit because it was too much for them. You guys, a lot of you know, Welling, we've gone over too much with our guy, but he's so strong. His enlightenment is so amazing. It's just too much. So if you have enlightenment or enlightened attention, this is what I always do. I mean like you guys don't know, like any of you, even Arhants, if I brought you to my level of meditation you would go crazy. Arhants, enlightened ones, if I brought you up to what I do every morning by myself you'd be all like, oh, it's too much, gotta run away.

1:52:53
It's true.

1:52:54
So it's like, when I'm with you,

1:52:57
I don't bring it to my level, I bring it to your level. I don't share books or teachers with lower, or even our homes, like I'll only bring you what you need to have

1:53:17
I'm very very very

1:53:20
Conservative I know I'm a tantric teacher a mystical teacher, but I mean You guys not know this I'm very very conservative very moderate so Showdowns and our haunts So, Shodons and Arhants, don't push it too much. Get back to the basic, basic, basic, basic, basic teachings of this school and do it from there. I know you are going to go, oh, well, you know, I found this one thing way out there, but no, the most powerful thing a Shodon or an Arhant can do is to bring it back to the most meditation, mindfulness. How many times have you heard me say compassion, compassion, compassion? Come to me with everything. And I can say everything in the universe. I can say this book, that universe, that teacher. I can say anything. And how many times, ST3s and 4s, did I say, well, there's this other teacher that some of our told me about that's cool. There's this other book. That will pull people's attention away. So I have to say, like, for example, like, Ra, he had tremendous study in Advaita. And then when he came here, he started to say, I see the Dharma here in this system. And so when people would say, hey, Ra, what about this? He would say, I have this great knowledge of something, and I will direct it into this structure to help you in your school. If I'm a fifth degree black belt in judo and I come to a karate school, I'm not going to start teaching people judo. I'm going to start to say, how does my awareness of martial arts and judo work in karate to help the karate students? Because if I tell them how to do judo it's not going to help their karate you guys get that that's what you got to do shodans and arhants don't fuck up it creates horrible karma if you get if you confuse younger students beginners and intermediates and bodons if you confuse them because shodan once you get the um the empowerments of the advanced teachings, it's a different level. And I can deal with that with you. But you can't influence beginners and intermediate students and Bodons with where you're at. I don't influence you where I'm at. I'm like, I can do that right now. I can go, bam! I can bring it so high up that you guys go crazy, run around like idiots, but I won't do that because that's my personal experience and I don't bring my intense level of energy to you. I look at where you're at and I got creative because I have my own liberation and I have these ideas but just don't get creative. Like really, really, really, really look at where everything's come from and follow it. Don't be like, you know what? In the San Francisco tenderloin, there's a lot of people who are, they're suffering because they're homeless and all this stuff. So I'm gonna take a group down there, we're gonna do compassion for them. We're gonna get mugged, beaten up, someone stabbed, someone in the hospital, someone in jail. So, like, I don't do that. Or like, hey, we're gonna go to like a rock concert after meditating. We're gonna go there and we're gonna like focus on our heart chakra and go to a rock concert and be like, oh! I'm like, are you kidding? Have you ever done that with me? Do we do that? No and also it's like Going to a rock concert and Psychically connecting to a whole bunch of people on such a moderate level of societal Conditioning it's psychically toxic So I don't do shit like that. Don't make shit up. Yeah, who know would be really cool we can go on a cruise ship and do some stupid shit there and jump in the water. And, you know, like, like look at the basics of the school. Don't start making shit up. Don't get creative. You're like, well, what if we, you know, like, don't, I mean, like, don't get crazy. Don't get crazy to the point where you like get in danger or going to like stupid states of mind, even though it might seem like a good idea because you used to go to a rock concert or you used to do this or that, you know, they don't do that. Like, look at the basics of the school. Follow it. If you fuck up, it fucks people up. No, really, like, I mean, it's like, we're like, oh, everything's very tantric and very mystical and fluid but I'm like no no no it's actually very structured it's actually very very structured look at your experience don't go too far off don't get creative really look at what's going on especially our homes

1:59:34
so

1:59:34
So, do you guys get what I'm talking about? I'm really not happy. Shodans and Arhans, you guys are big fuck-ups. You need to get your shit together. And I would say the best way to get your shit together is not in your head, it's in your action. So, fuck you and you're wrong and you're dishonorable, and if you're dishonorable, leave a dishonored being, a dishonored Arhant, you can do it, it's possible, but you are dishonorable and that is your destiny. If you want to leave a dishonored Arhan, dishonored Shonan, get the fuck out and fuck you and guess what? That's what you, that's your legacy. And you go, well I don't, I disagree with Sambara. Guess what? You're a white, you're a black belt disagreeing with an eighth-degree black belt, that's your story. And to you, that might be a great But the bigger power means something. So get the fuck out. No, like, either learn or get the fuck out. You don't want to learn anymore? I mean, like Rama always said, you know, once you become enlightened, your enlightened teacher kicks your ass kicked, but you won't get your ass kicked. You'll be under your own jurisdiction. Good for you. Or some other judo school or that I hear a lot of people say, let me tell them burnout, I'm super stressed. And I'm like, well, showdowns and arhants,

2:01:40
first of all, showdowns and arhants are like,

2:01:43
well, now that I'm a showdown and an arhant, I don't wanna do yoga because it's hard and it makes it difficult for me. And I'm like, seriously? Because I did yoga up until my enlightenment. And then when I became enlightened, I did yoga. And so did Mandala. SD3 is now testimony, right? And so did Sananda. Three enlightened students, primarily, high enlightenment, three enlightened students of this lineage did yoga and became enlightened and this and you know what we did after that? More yoga and a hundred percent. Was Mandala a hundred percent? I was a hundred percent yogis. We were yogis. This is a school of yoga. Where the fuck are you? Sleeping at the wheel wake up showdowns Wake up our haunts. You don't just I'm an arhant and I'm all pissed off and yeah You should be because you're not doing yoga. The yoga is really hard and stressful What the fuck are you doing here? Karate is really hard and stressful. No! If karate is hard and stressful, you get your black belt and you get better. Do you guys know that? That's the way that shit works! No! It's tiring! I don't like it! It's hard! I'm gonna go to this other school where it's easier. Fuck you! Get the fuck out of here! I'm not kidding. I'm in a karate school, I've got my black belt, but now it's too stressful and it's hard. Are you kidding me? That's not a martial artist. That's not the way that you grow in power. You get your black belt and it is harder and you take on more responsibility. You get to your next level teachings, maybe you have to teach other people. You push it up. Like, that's the way shit works, people. It doesn't work where, I can't play black belt, so now I quit karate because I already got my black belt. And then you get in a fight and you can't fight. You got a black belt, you can't fight. You're not a martial artist. You're not an enlightened master when you get your arhant. You're not an enlightened master. You're wishy-washy. Fuck you. You're weak. You're enlightened, but weak. I don't know how to explain that to you. I guarantee you get a black belt in any dojo, I'll bring you to a place in San Francisco where you'll get your ass kicked in a street fight. But that's a first-degree black belt. But then you can learn something else. Same thing with enlightenment. You can get your, you can become an Arhant. You can get enlightened. You're not the enlightened master. I will kick your ass right here, right now. This is what I'm doing. You think you're so strong, come on.

2:05:07
Step to step, focus to focus, let's do it.

2:05:10
You're so strong, come on. Step to step, focus to focus, let's do it. You're like, I'll look you in the eyes and you'll be like, brr. So, let's be real.

2:05:21
I really appreciate that students go up in levels,

2:05:26
from beginning to intermediate. I really respect that. From intermediate to advanced, I remember when we were down in Kilauea when I gave the advanced teachings. No wait, oh I did it in Kilauea but I did it in the Anza Brito. So beautiful, I loved it so much. And then I gave the enlightenment teachings and that's where people started becoming enlightened. I really like it but don't don't give up there's more to do right you get your black belt in school that's not the end your sense can kick your ass you're getting a black belt doesn't mean you're a martial artist doesn't mean you're the strongest and yeah yeah yeah Bruce Lee at one black belt right so this is the thing you've got to keep going and if you think you got it all or you think you got it in a judo school, then fuck out. And don't hang around here and weigh down my school and be a pain in the ass to me. If you're an asshole, if you're dishonorable, you've been here for so many years, you got your enlightenment and you're dishonorable, then get the fuck out. I don't want that. I want honorable people. I would hang out with 10 white belts rather than 100 archons who are doing their own thing. Get the fuck out of here. Are you serious? Is that what your enlightenment told you? Get the fuck out of here.

2:07:08
Yeah. It's ridiculous.

2:07:14
Now a lot of people talk about stress and I'm like, really? I'm too stressed out. Too stressed out. um, shut-ons and arhants. Arhants are like, I'm too enlightened to do anything anymore because I'm too stressed. Too sensitive. Do you think I'm too sensitive, you motherfuckers? Or I see crazy, remember Mondalba, was she too sensitive to like fucking go through everything with you? Everything? She worked harder than all of you? Is that too sensitive for an enlightened person? I'm too enlightened. Fuck you. Or my teacher to go through all that shit. Or for me to do all this shit. Do you guys not realize that there is not too sensitive. Or for Krishna to walk onto a fucking battlefield.

2:08:19
No.

2:08:23
There's not too sensitive, idiots. So if you're like, I'm too sensitive, you need to wake the fuck up, even if you're enlightened. Wake the fuck up. We walk onto a battlefield every day. And if you're not walking on the battlefield, then you're running from the battle. Because you're too scared. But no, Krishna walked onto a battlefield to teach yoga and enlightenment. And that's what we do. You can't run away. There's no retreat in enlightenment. There's no retreat. You can't just go, I'm enlightened, so now I should fan me and feed me grapes. It doesn't happen. That's like a Hallmark card idea of enlightenment, you idiot. And then, you know, like, no, it doesn't happen. You face reality even more in liberation. So, stop the game. Own your strength, take the pain, and be impeccable, Arhant. Stop whining. Stop being a victim. I'm not a victim. Yeah. When I became enlightened in Mandala and Sananda, we did yoga. We did yoga. You remember SC3's Wake the Fuck Up. Wake the fuck up to that. We did yoga. We did work. We didn't run away from it. If you want to run away from it, that's your direction. It's not the direction of liberation. So, you have to really like get things into perspective like Krishna walked out on the field with Arjuna to battle. He was down for the battle. To ride him in to a battle. That's Krishna. And you're just like, I don't like this. Things are out of touch.

2:10:44
They hurt too much.

2:10:45
Fuck you. You're an idiot.

2:10:47
Krishna is not an idiot, he was a person of impeccability. And then when you're not impeccable, you run away. Run away. You're like, but I'm pretty stressed out. Well, Krishna probably was stressed out on a battlefield. But here's the thing, people who complain about it's too much and there's too much stress and I'm stressed out and I'm burnt out, I'll say, fuck you, that's a cop out. If you say I'm stressed out and burnt out, I'm like, well then, you're not applying the Buddhist teachings. You're not applying mindfulness, you're not meditating strong enough, you can meditate your way through being burnt out by getting to some deep reflection beyond the karma. You know, like, eh, it sounds stressful. You're caught up in karma if you're caught up in stress. You know, I've been doing advanced karma yoga for like 25 years or more. And guess what? Have you, I've never said, I'm burnt out. I'm stressed out. I've never experienced that. I've experienced the greatest intensities way more than you guys. And I had to balance things out, but I balanced things out. I meditated, I took a retreat, I did this, I did that, but I never said, I'm burnt out because you guys are blah blah blah. I'm too stressed. I never did that. I'm a yogi. Like a yogi never gives up, never surrenders, doesn't quit. Milarepa, building the fucking towers, right? Like build it here, build it there, build it here, build it there. And he just kept doing it and he's like well this shit is hard but he never gave up he jumped out a window once right okay okay but um but no like you don't you don't give up you just keep going like there it's is it hard it's difficult you know all these things sure sure it is it is hard but you don't give up i never give up in a fight Like, you can't say, well, it's hard so I quit. I did it too long, so I'm burned out. I'm stressed out. No, you can't do that. You have to be, you have to be real. That's what a yogi is. That's what Milarepa was. I gotta say that's what I was, and that's what Mandala was, and that was Sananda. So if you're like really weak Shodans or stupid weak Arhants, I'm like go wash out somewhere. This is a school where I'm going to maintain a certain standard. It's going to be a standard where for beginners, intermediate, and advanced. Advanced, showdowns, and arhants, you guys are fucked up. You guys are weak. You guys are mediocre. You guys are not strong. And so, if you guys can't do it, wash out. Leave. I don't, I mean like, if you don't want to be strong in this school, you want to come up to a black belt level and then maintain that. Are you kidding me? With this level of attitude and mind, are you kidding me? You're a black belt in my school? No, you guys have become weak black belts. And I'm really good to work with beginners and intermediates to get them to the black belt level and see what they wanna do. But if, you know, I give you a lot of opportunities. You're a black belt, you're a showdown. So if you're a black belt, you should have honor. You should have integrity. You should try more. But guess what you do?

2:15:23
I'm already a black belt.

2:15:24
So you're like the classic American black belt. I worked up to a black belt, got a black belt, quit the dojo, never did karate again, got my ass kicked, got mugged, got hurt. I'm like, that's not a martial artist. It's not just about a black belt, it's about a martial artist. It's not just about a black belt, it's about enlightenment. It's not just about a showdown, it's about enlightenment. And even if you get enlightened, that's just I don't know. Bunch of idiots. Especially you on Zoom. Especially you on Zoom. Idiots.

2:16:06
I'm not kidding.

2:16:07
I'm extending my second attention to you. Right now. Wake the fuck up or get the fuck out. I don't want to deal with you.

2:16:21
I don't need to have a whole bunch of people.

2:16:26
If it comes to it, I'll kick you out if you can't work it out. Rama used to kick people out like crazy.

2:16:34
You know I don't.

2:16:35
I haven't kicked people out. I just raise the bar because, you know, you guys, you guys kind of hacked the bar. So I'm just going to kick it. You guys are all, how do we hack the bar? We're going to Google how to deal with stress. And if you have stress, um, you're like, I'm too stressed out to do yoga. I'm like, where have you been for the last 10 years? I know it's hard, it's intense, but if you're stressed and unbalanced, you're not practicing properly. Start it over. Go to the basics of the teachings. Meditate, mindfulness, compassion, yoga. The clean teachings empower you. They don't stress you out. But if you find stress, that's in your mind. And if that's where you end, maybe it's time to end. You don't want to go further? You want to stay in that karma? Because I mean, I've done that like super intensely. I've gone through all this stuff and I'm not ending. I'm not stopping. I'm balanced. It's been really intense. I've had more people than you that I have to work with. Even every intensity, so many dimensions, work, business, personal, everything, spiritual. So no, everything that you're dealing with is a thing, but if you can't deal with it, give up. You want to, if you, like, show dance, figure it out from the spiritual teachings or if you want to give up and leave but stop being mediocre don't be in the middle you want you want to be weak give up you want to be strong figure it out but come on you've got the teachings and you know it and you've seen it but if you're just mediocre in your attention you know i don't know if i feel like doing mindfulness for a little bit of mindfulness. That's what you do. That's what you do. And that's mediocre attention. That doesn't bring enlightenment. That doesn't bring anything. It just keeps you in karma. But, oh my gosh, do you guys know that all the things that I teach, I've put my mind into 100%, 1000%. Put my mind into a hundred percent a thousand percent. That's why Mastered mindfulness is where I can look at you in the eye and like bring light. Oh My gosh, I've mastered meditation I Can sit and stop thought that's one two There's all these dimensions from our system that I can open and I can work all these mystical dimensions you know, some Shodons and Arhants can do it too but come on you guys need to take away here's the thing about Shodons and Arhants you can open up some powerful mystical dimensions but you also have a bunch of your personal shit

2:20:23
even Arhants

2:20:24
and if you do that you're covering over the mystical dimensions and then the light with a little bit of self so we have to you know refine that and pull away self self self self self more and more so that there's just the light and I'm a real strong master of that. I've been doing it for a long time and I, you know, I was where you were at now. I clean it, clean it, clean it, clean it, clean it. So if you're saying, I'm burnt out,

2:21:01
I'm stressed out.

2:21:02
Guess what? I know what that means. I know that too. I've been there too. Been there, been there back many times, but I'm still here. And this is what life's about. Do yoga! Do yoga. This is a school of yoga. As soon as I became liberated, Mandala, Sananda, all three of us, we were 100,000% into yoga. And that's what created this powerful school. That's the roots of the school. So, if you have a hard time, meditate. Be mindful. Be compassionate. Do the practices. You're a showdown and you're saying, and too stressed out. You're not practicing properly. If you're an arhant especially, you go, well I'm too sensitive. I'm like, fuck you. I was sensitive when I first had my primary liberation and I worked and Manzala worked and Sananda worked. So yeah, you're too sensitive. Fuck you. You're weak. Wake the fuck up. Be stronger. You guys crack me up so much. All right. Okay. I think I got my message across. But, not happy, especially with you on Zoom. Fuck you. You're wrong. You're fucked up. Decide to leave, or decide to do this right. Okay, and we're going to do a lovely meditation on the heart chakra. One song, sit up nice and straight, and let's begin.

2:22:59
Mystery school, mystery school.

2:23:01
Mr. Xco. Mr. Xco.

2:23:03
So,

2:23:10
Yeah. So, thank you. So, So So, So So So. So. So So so you So you So. So, thank you. So, So so So So So so You Wonderful. So, Charons and Arhants, you should be leaders in the way of this dojo. You should be leaders in the way of yoga. So if you're

2:35:21
not doing yoga you should step up. I don't know what kind of yoga, like you could do a business, you can do a sangha org, Buddha dojo, you can do music, you can do what is your yoga? What's your contribution? It has to be yoga. Whatever it is. I mean there's all sorts of ways of yoga, you know that because you've been here for a while. But what's your yoga? Maybe it's martial arts. I don't know what. But if you're not engaged in yoga and you're doing finger painting or something right? But because you're advanced you don't have to use some software or something like that. But you should be able to show in your finger painting that that's mindful committed yoga. Like do yoga somewhere. Do yoga somehow. It can be your own making, it could contribute to the group which is powerful, you can help a business which is more powerful, you know, like you know what to do. You guys are not new, but if it's a personal experience that you want to express, do it as yoga and make it something that everyone says, wow, amazing. Like Chandi does art, like she does painting and stuff and she developed that she learned yoga And then she developed that as her yoga, and you look at her art. It is beautiful Powerful art and it is an expression of yoga So you're gonna do art you can do music you can do anything that you want you can do anything But come on showdowns make it yoga, and then then someone might do like, I don't know, anything. And then they'll show it and other people will say, wow, that's yoga, a new dimension of yoga.

2:37:22
That's good. So yoga's important in this school.

2:37:26
I'm just gonna add a little bit of another thing before I have to go to my next meeting. So I got contacted last week by seven enlightened students, new ones that I never met before. And they were like, we're a group of seven enlightened students. They live in New York, and they work on what they call a higher yogic dharma. And they said, and they're not part of ABS or anything, so they're like absolutely brand new enlightened students that we've never heard of. And they said, they've been watching me in the second attention for like over 10 years, that they have a very, very, very, very super strong yoga, a Dharma yoga. And they said that they've been watching me and they said, you know, you're the highest teacher, but teaching sucks. And so that's why they don't teach. They just do this higher yoga. And it's a higher yoga that Rama talked to us about too. He said, you guys see me as this thing where I bring enlightenment to you, but I'm part of a bigger mandala. And so they say they're part of,

2:39:03
they're doing that level,

2:39:05
like the higher level that Rama shared with us. And they're like, we're doing that level of teaching or Dharma, of yoga. And I'm like, wow, that's cool. Because Rama shared it with us and it was a very high thing. But it was like, that was the thing that he was working on to bring enlightenment to us. So they say, so there's seven of us and they've been together for 20 years and they all went through the enlightenment cycle together. And now they say they're all enlightened, like fully enlightened. And I'm like, cool! And they're like, and we've been watching you for a long time and now we're getting to a level where we need to open things up. And they say, so when now we need, you know, you have certain skills and powers that we need so that we can get it to the next level. So they reached out to me and so pretty soon I'm gonna have a zoom meeting with them. They sent me an email and they're not part of ABS or anything they're like this bunch of new seven enlightened students that I never heard of before. But they go you'll remember us because they're doing a really cool thing. So I was so happy to hear that. But they do, guess what they do?

2:40:42
Yoga.

2:40:43
And that's what they're going to talk to me about. A yoga that they've been doing since their liberation. It's a very high yoga and they want me to participate in it, which I can because I'm super strong in yoga. If you ever back out of yoga, if you're weak, you can't do yoga, you have too much shit in your head, you're not a yogi, you're not enlightened, it's not enlightened practice. So I can deal with all the shit that you guys, you know, come up with, apparently. But I also can come up to, apparently, because they're like, we've been watching you for over 10 years. I can come up to a level of 7 enlightened, fully enlightened beings who are doing the yoga. I can come up to their level. So I don't just have to sit around, you know, in like those little dance studio teaching you guys some moves. I can go up to, you know, the next level, right? Like I am at that level. I can come down to you, white belts, intermediate belts, showdowns, and the lame ass arhants. I can come down to you, but I can also go up to the major leagues, which is a group of seven enlightened, they say fully enlightened at this point, and they went through the enlightenment process together. They were a sangha all the way for over 20 years. And I'm like, and just getting that email from them, I was like, this is real. It's super strong I used to think out of all of Rama's sanghas I'm like mine is the strongest even though you guys are bunch of fuck-ups but compared to the rest it's better right but then no it's true but then this one what this one little sangha of seven they go we don't, they're very, very inaccessible, but they're like, they're all enlightened and they all work together. And I'm like, that is the best song. Yeah, I can, you know, I can be in the major leagues. And so I'm very interested to see what they have to talk about. But I'm really happy about that because I know there's about 44 enlightened students of Rama and I only know about 15 of them but now I know 21 of them. So it's pretty cool. Anyway, so in the end, I have to just say, fuck you. Like, get your shit together. Showdons, Bodons, I think you're doing an okay job. But the leadership of this community needs to get it together. Like, the Black belts in the school, if you guys are... If you guys are doing a bad job, then you hurt the whole school. So I need to say, Shodrons, wake up. And arhants, you're not perfect. A bad arhant is horrible. A bad arhant can confuse people in terrible ways. Bad arhants don't have a good time. Even in the time of the Buddha. So just because you had an enlightenment moment, it doesn't mean that you're... I mean, look at your own mind, you're a mess, right? It's like, come on, wake up. You have to follow the teachings more. Just because you get a black belt doesn't mean that you can beat anyone in any fight. You need to become stronger. You got your black belt. That's a real thing. That's a true thing. That's a real thing. But come on, don't give up from there. That's where you should get stronger. Like, I got a black belt. Did I quit at that point? No, I got many more black belts. I kept fighting. I did so much more than that. That's a martial artist. You know, you don't get a black belt and go, oh, I got a black belt, so I'm going to quit. Are you kidding me? Oh, I got a black belt from you. And now I'm going to go to like a judo school. I'm like, cool. Like, I don't know.

2:45:24
Like that's totally different.

2:45:25
Does that make you a better martial artist? Cause you start from something that you're excited about from the beginning. Uh, usually you have to take it to a level of mastery not just a black belt but a level of mastery yeah whatever Uh, usually you have to take it to a level of mastery not just a black belt but a level of mastery yeah whatever my end goal is to tell you fuck you




Transcribed with Cockatoo
