0:00:00
I'm kind of interested in teaching a very special thing. It's something I was thinking of just teaching the showdowns, but it's a very, very, very, very cool thing. I like it a lot. But let's begin with meditation. Meditation, meditation, meditation. So, we will sit. Let's just sit for one song. One song, this is Stands From Canyons of Light, and On The Third Eye.

0:00:56
This is going to be... So, one song, Third Eye. And we'll see what goes on.

0:01:03
Thank you.

0:01:10
the the the the the the the the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the the the So, so Music Music Music Music Music Okay, wonderful. So, there's a very powerful teaching that I want to give to my show dogs. I'm very inspired by all of the Bodhams. I'm very encouraged by all the work that you've done. Your participation, your intention, your awareness. So I'd like to offer this teaching to the Bodhams as well. Now, I guess I give some levels of acceptance in this. Just like I might teach a jumping, spinning hook kick to my martial arts students. And I could teach it where it's like the real deal. I'm like, you're a showdown, here's the real deal.

0:05:07
I could also teach it in kind of an easy way where you can kind of do it and it kind of works. It just doesn't have pow-wow, like jumping. But you can do it and it looks like one. And it's a good step. So for Bodons, this is a very powerful advanced technique. And if you can do it, then maybe you're natural. Otherwise it's a good step and you learn a really fancy thing that looks cool. All right. This is the teaching of the double. You guys know what the double is? It's someone who looks like you, but not exactly like you, but they go around using your ID and find you. That happens in Savitri. Like, someone stole her identity, and they were buying all sorts of things under her name and ruining her credit and all this stuff. And then, you know, banks were like, hey, you owe us this money for this. And she's like, I'm not even in that state, you know? And then they said, here's the ID that we were shown. So Savitri got this, like the Illinois driver's license that was shown for purchases of things. And the picture of the woman named Vanessa Kellis Leverage was a black woman.

0:08:36
And I was like, see, that's you in a past life.

0:08:38
She's so funny.

0:08:39
It was a big deal for her to get out of that. Yeah, so.

0:08:42
Not that kind of dumb.

0:08:44
You guys see the movie Dave?

0:08:51
1990s.

0:08:52
Yeah, great film. That's where there was a problem with the president and they had to get a guy who looked like him and it ended up being the best movie of the year. But it's not that kind of double.

0:09:12
It's not someone who looks like someone.

0:09:13
So, who read the autobiography of a yogi?

0:09:18
Lots of us.

0:09:19
So there's a place where there's, where Yogananda talks about this one yogi who could have two bodies. He had, this yogi was teaching and meeting with people in one place, and teaching and meeting with people in another place. And that's called the devil. There's also a story of the Buddha, where there was this one student who was not smart, he couldn't memorize any of the teachings, he just was not a very clever monk. And everyone thought he was a stupid monk. And Buddha said, now that monk is extremely evolved. And then they see him trying to eat rice in my eye. It didn't work. And people are like, this guy is an idiot. And then the Buddha came and gave a teaching. And then after the teaching, everyone was so excited and happy and high. And this one monk just seemed like such an idiot and such a blunderous fool. And they're like, Buddha came and we're all happy and you're just tripping around being a dumbass. And then they said, we don't care that Buddha said you're something good, get out. And they pushed him out, out of this Buddhist community. That would be like the Boney Woods people, push someone out into the forest. Yeah, and then what are they gonna do in the forest? They're like, oh, I don't have anything going on.

0:11:20
What do I have?

0:11:21
I don't have a roof over my head. Yeah, so Boney Wesians.

0:11:25
Don't push anyone out. And then, and then they pushed him out. And then they went to the meditation hall and they were happy that they got rid of this loser. And then they saw him appear right in the meditation hall. And then they said, we told you to get out. And they pushed him out of the meditation hall. And then he appeared again. And then he appeared again and again and again. And there were like 300 of him in the meditation hall. The devil is not just one. The devil means that you can transmit an astral body. An astral body can be infinite. This is what I do. I've developed this. And what I'm teaching you today is the way to develop it. Shodans have given you this transmission. And you, some of you have done it to some times, to some degree. But this is the next level of teaching for Shodans. This is the ultimate level of teaching for Shodans. or showdowns. And if you're a Bodon, listen close. Maybe you can do it. So, the devil, it's this thing where you're here in your physical body, but you have another awareness somewhere else. And in the old teachings of the Native Americans of the physical doubles. Like there's a guy over here and he's over here at the same time. And in India, there's a guy over here and a guy over here at the same time. That's a double. a different devil. And you guys know my devil definitely for sure 100% because my devil has visited you probably once a week or sometimes 10 times a day. And this is what I would call an astral double. To make a physical double in this lifetime

0:14:31
is a lot of work.

0:14:32
And I think there's probably still

0:14:35
some people can do that. Here, there's lots of doubles. There's lots of bodies. Do you know that? I mean, you got your physical body. That's the one thing you know. But then when you start meditation, you start to realize that you have an energy body. And then that becomes a concrete awareness. You're like, oh, I do have an energy body. And then you start to know in dreams, your dream body. Do you know that when you're in a dream and you're walking around talking doing things getting bothered do you know that that that is not your physical body? Yeah it is well you probably do know that it's not your physical body but it is It is a body of awareness in that dimension.

0:15:40
And it's for real.

0:15:41
I can't tell you. When you're in a dream, it's completely, you know, transitory. But in the moment of that dream, it is for real. And you are not in the physical. You are in a dream and that body that is experiencing is in a dream. It's a dream body. The dream plane, the dream dimensions are different dimensions, but they are real. They are as real as this. Because five years later or tomorrow you say, how real is this? It's a dream. It's a past. It's not real. So, the realness of things becomes questionable. I've got a physical body. Yesterday, I was physical and I knew it was real. And that's an experience of the physical body in time and space. The dream body is completely different in time and space. The dream body is in the moment. It doesn't have a future. You're not like worried about the future. You're just experiencing fear of the future. You're not stuck in the past. You're not sitting there thinking about the past. You're experiencing an experience of the past. The dream body is in the moment. That's the dream body. When you fall asleep and you have a dream, it's not your physical body. It is a mental projection of you. And it's a real thing. You feel through it. You can actually get hurt. You ever get hit by a rock in a dream? You're all, ouch! Or punched.

0:17:55
I do a lot of martial arts in dreams.

0:17:57
Yeah, dream body is a real body. It's a dream body. When you die, you enter a Lovato body. It's a different body. Now, when we're talking about the devil, we're We have physical body, subtle physical body, body of energy. We learned about that in the beginning and intermediate practices. And then we learned that the chakras are, they lie upon the shishumna. And that is the structure of your causal body. There are so many bodies. It's like more bodies than like the mafia. But you know, these are real things. Your causal body, the chakras. That's why we focus on chakras, bringing energy of the Sushumna. The devil is not a macaw, the devil is an asshole. See this is an advanced teaching. You've got a physical body. You guys know that. Then you've learned that you have an aura. You've learned that you have some energy body. You have learned there's a dream body, you dream. But then there's this other thing that I've been extremely good at in my teaching, which delimiting the astral body. Americans in spirituality like to space out and go into the astral world. The first thing that Americans do, I mean maybe you know Amsterdam they like to do this too, I don't know. Other places in the world I'm not so sure, but in America America, we love it. And they're going to be spiritual. And they space out. They become spacey. And that brings them into the lower occult. It's the easiest dimensions to get to. So if you space out in your spiritual life, you'll go into the lower occult. And that is the lower astral dimensions. So you don't go into your subtle physical body because that would be like Qigong and yoga. When you space out, you start to go into this weird neon light kind of energy. And then when you do that, you're in trouble. That creates a whole dimension and world of trouble. You start being aware of 10,000 different things, and they're all wrong. And there's all these problems. And there's powers, and there's scenes, and everything's amiss. That's the higher astral. So I have a student in Hungary who, she's on the music yoga team. And she's a a piano teacher at the Conservatory of Music at Northwest. So she's an accomplished piano teacher. And she's been meditating to our music for a long time. And then she developed the third ear. And she's like, I hear celestial music all the time. And I said, okay, let me teach you how to turn that into a song, the physical. And then she's made, we're working on a Hungry album, right? Yeah. And she's Hungry, right? And her songs are so elevated, so beautiful, so angelic. She did the Shiva Shakti song on the India album. Oh really? She did Shiva Shakti on India. That is a good song. Wow. And she says she hasn't even saw Shiva Shakti yet. That's wonderful. Yeah, so she goes into the higher astral and she hears celestial music. And she has 30 years of experience where she can make a song out of it. So, these are things that, you know, a lot of this thing of the third ear that hears the music, celestial music, she doesn't make it up, she hears it in higher dimensions. It's higher astral dimensions. Not lower astral dimensions where you get all confused, where things are problems. In the higher astral dimensions, everything is beautiful. Sounds are beautiful, visions are beautiful, everything just shows you good things, only good. There's no problem. In the higher astral. I mean, lower astral, that's why I'm saying there's a lot of things you can do with the devil. You can have a devil that's trained for martial arts or an assassination. You can kill people with the devil. We don't teach that. I mean, we teach, you know, martial arts, but our devil, all we teach is a Buddhist double, a very, very high double, a very high astral double. And it's also not physical. It's subtle physical. It's astral. We're going to work on that today. you should be very adept at these skills. It's not hard if you meditate and if you've been through several power trips. Because in every power trip that you've been on with me, I exercise the devil. All right, but we're going to listen to, we're going to meditate to, and on the third eye. A song that came from the higher astral. The higher astral, it's very important to know the higher astral to know the devil. I'm going to close my eyes and see what happens. All right, let's do it. so

0:26:34
the the the the the the the so the the the the you the the the the

0:28:31
Wonderful. That is a demonstration, visually, of the higher astral dimensions. If you are stuck with trouble of your own in lower astral dimensions and go lower, or just in weird dimensions, to the left and go right. And then there is the higher astral. The higher astral, beyond the astral into the causal. But in this physical world, the higher astral is very useful for helping people. So many of the Siddha powers that I use come through the higher astral. It's very important, and there's of course a very strong connection to the causal, which is the light, the dimensions of light. transmission of Through the Shut Offs. The first transmissions of the devil you've done very well with, but I have things to show you that make things rapidly appear. Things that I've worked at over some years. You could too, but I could also show you now and then it helps you to do it faster.

0:32:05
All right, we're gonna do some practice.

0:32:08
I'd like everyone to find in your visual range An empty spot. You might have to move or turn around or something. I don't want you looking through another person. I want you to find somewhere five or ten feet away where you can see just the ground with no one behind it. It could be a tree behind it, an ocean nothing, no person. So yeah, position yourself and reposition yourself. And I know I'm in the way. I'm mostly in the way. And we want to look kind of close, five to ten feet away. Alright. So, we have our physical body, which we take care of. We meditate, which is a subtle physical body. We exercise, it purifies the subtle physical body. We eat certain foods that are healthy and positive for the subtle physical body. Now there's something that you have called an astral body. That astral body can go to hell or go to heaven. The easiest place to get is the lowest places. But we don't go to the low places at all. We only go to the high places. The astral body is a body that goes through all sorts of, not dream dimensions, but idea, visions, dimensions. And the astral body is a real thing. When people say astral traveling, that's a real thing. And we always call it asshole traveling. Because people make so many mistakes with it. And we don't talk about the astral body usually until the black belt level, Shodan level. But, bonons, you have the skills. It should be like, for showdons, it should be the easiest thing in the world. And for bonons, you guys could probably do it too, for sure. So I want you to look five feet in front of you, I've been opening your awareness of what the astral body is. It's a feeling of you are there, and you should see yourself, not in the physical, but in the astral. You should be able to look up and see your body. It's five feet in front of you. It looks like a, yeah, kind of a discoloration. You look at the ground, at one point it's one color and then it starts to look purplish and green and whoosh. And then you look up And you have this feeling of putting yourself there.

0:36:33
Okay.

0:36:35
Stay in your same positions because we're going to do another step. that I saw my double. I was 12 years old and it was late at night and I was in bed but I was really thirsty but I really wanted to sleep. And I was all, I'm so thirsty. I should have drank some water but now I'm so sleepy. And then at some point I was like, I gotta get some water. So I got up and I walked over to the bathroom

0:37:19
and it took so much energy.

0:37:21
I was like, oh God, I don't wanna do this because I'm so tired. And then I turned on the water and I drank the water and somehow it wasn't really satisfying, but I did it. And I felt the water and I was just like, and then I was like, well, I guess I drank water. So I'm gonna go back to bed. And I turned around and walked back and I saw myself sleeping in my bed. The devil is not actually something that, I mean, it's something that actually kind of happens pretty easily. So for me, I was 12 years old and I wanted to drink water but I was also too sleepy and it activated my devil. Now for some people, they are lying down in their bed and for some reason they want to get up and then they see themselves get up and they see themselves lying in bed. It is not an uncommon occurrence. I have heard lots of students have similar experiences. So I was teaching, this is like so weird, right? And they are like, yeah, no, no. I think that happened to me when I was working. And it is like, yeah, it happened to me when I was 12. It is actually not a crazy, un-understandable thing. So the devil is active when you activate it. And what you just did when you said, I'm going to project myself, use my energy to project myself, you saw your astral body standing outside of yourself. And that's the devil. The devil is the projection of not your physical body, you're not physically in two places. It's not your energy body, your subtle physical body. It is not your causal body. It is your astral body. So we're doing a little exercise in the astral. A little movement. And it's pretty And I did this teaching for several students already in Hungary and France and Iceland and it was very, very clear for them. And not very difficult. If you are just showed on, this is not a stretch. You don't have to make it up. It is pretty simple. If you intend to project yourself, to feel yourself come out, you'll see yourself right in front of yourself. Very good. And for Bodons, I see a lot of you are doing it And then if you're not, if it doesn't work, it doesn't have to at this point. Just learn from this experience and then in the future it will be as easy as everything. It will be second nature. So now we are going to go to the next level. Now this level is the showdown level. And Bodons, if you can do to make really wonderful shifts of dharma. So for shodhans, shodhans are advanced students, enlightened students and teachers. And to be a teacher, there's some amazing mystical things that we do in the school that we learn. And one of the things is how to use the double. So all Shodans how to lead a power trip. How to go to the ends of Borrego and be very careful and respectful of the energy of the dimensions. But once you find your place of meditation, it's a very, very, very sacred thing to find the place of meditation and not the place where the energy is too intense for the group. You have to balance that out. And then when you find that place and you sit there, we look at a mountain in front of us and see that it has an aura. Just to gaze at it and still your mind, you'll see the energy of the mountain, the aura of the mountain. But what I do when I do power trips is I bring my devil to the mountain. And when I'm there in my astral body, I work with the dimensions that are there. And it is like the Disney Wonderland roller coaster ride in the Anza Brego and Shasta, for example. Those are places where if you can project your devil, then you can be there. That means that you have a physical body and you enter into the non-physical, the aura and the astral and the dimensions are open and you are directly connecting with it. And that's where I have done lots of training, lots of awareness and it is it is like a roller coaster. So this is very important for Shona because I learned this little by little by little. I trained with my teacher who did it a long time like you guys have with me and then when he taught this I didn't know what to do. You know, he didn't give us the second teaching like I'm giving you the second teaching. So I was just like, oh. And so I figured it out little by little, but of course it just, it blossoms. But this is me giving you more direct awareness. So when we go out to the ends of Borrego and I say, just look into the mountain or look at the top of the mountain, what I do is I bring my double there and I become aware of the astral dimensions, the many dimensions there, and then I work with them and I learn learn them so much. Just like if you walk into a Judo dojo, you start to learn those throats. Then a Tai Chi school, you start to learn the movements. In a Karate school, you start to learn punches and blocks. Taekwondo school, you learn kicks. If you're versed in these dimensions, you start to be able to open and use all these wonderful spiritual dimensions. And it is by bringing your devil to it. So the devil going into that dimension. You know when I sit there and say, look at the star, look at the sun, look at the moon. Don't look at the sun, look at the moon, right? That's where that field of energy, the devil. And that's why all of a sudden things start to become magical. So, here's what I'd like you to do now. Technique number two. Technique number two. So you have seen that you can project the self, starting with the feet, you can see that you're there and you can see up to your body. Now we are going to spend a couple of minutes where you project the self. And then from that point of position, 5 feet or 10 feet away, you have to have awareness looking back. You have to not only see your projection of a body there, but you have to put your point of awareness there. And then you will see yourself there, you will see the body, and then you will see yourself looking back and seeing all these people. So this This is the crux of the matter. To not only project an astral body, but to perceive and be aware of the place of the astral body. Looking back, seeing yourself, move your physical body a little bit, and then see yourself from that other point. See the movement. Okay, this is advanced. If you can't do it, it's okay. But, shurams should be no problem. Okay, let's do this a couple minutes.

0:48:15
I'm going to do a little bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a Okay. I'm going to do a little bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a I'm going to go ahead and get started. All right.

0:50:31
It's very interesting. The astral body, definitely possible. And then looking back is the crux of the double. Having the awareness in that astral projection. Then that way you can go to the El Zorbrego and say, look at the aura of this mountain. And then you feel the aura and then you project the astral body and be aware from there, and then all of a sudden you have like, it's the answer very low, you have like 10,000 tools at your disposal. And then, this is the thing, this is not something that just happens, it's something that you can work on. And I've worked on it a lot, for many years. So it's something that I've become very adept at. But it requires practice. Now, I do not recommend that you go to a place of power and start messing around with the devil. That would be really a bad thing to do. It can get you into a lot of trouble. You don't use this power unless you're doing it for a Dharmic reason. It can't be a self-reason. It has to be a Dharma reason. So whenever I do it, I've always been doing it for teaching. So it's always been Dharma. I've never done it just for myself. So you can't do it just to go, can I do it? Only if you're with me, we are practicing together. But the best way, if you want to develop the devil, the best way is to teach. Teach, teach, teach, teach, teach. If you are teaching in our system from intermediate to advanced to enlightenment, there is a subtle second attention structure that develops your double. You might be an intermediate teacher or a yoga teacher or an advanced teacher, and you might be teaching and your students will say, I felt like you were in the room with me and then I knew something and that was your double. When you activate the double, the double actually is in the second attention. When you activate the double, the thing that I'm teaching you right now wakes up your second attention. Your second attention doesn't work in the first attention time. So I don't sit there and think, I'm going to send my double to a student in India because I'm sleeping. No way. Same thing with dreaming. I have students in Hungary, while I'm awake, they're having dreams with me. The dreaming is in the second attention. The devil is in the second attention. So this is actually a teaching of the second attempt. And this means that you can be on the other side of the world. When I'm in Hawaii, Hungary is the other side of the world. And I'm teaching with my double. And when I'm awake, having dreams with me. It's not that dreaming is like we have to be asleep at the same time. And I don't have to sit there and think, send my devil over there. Not at all. My devil, I have more than one devil. Devil means a non-physical astral body. I get hundreds of students at the same time with my double. Because I'm good at it and I worked on it. So what I'm teaching you now is something that you can practice. You can work on. But you have to do it right. You can work on projecting yourself outside of yourself and looking back at yourself. That's clean and clear. Don't go jumping into energies of power for no reason. Just to like, you want power? That's not a good idea. So, the only reason I've ever projected myself into a place of power is because I was on a power trip with students teaching them. So you can build up to that. So showdowns can probably do that. But you want to build up to, if you want to develop the way to get your, if you really want to develop the double. You've got to teach. Teach meditation, teach yoga, teach some things, support Sangha. It will activate this teaching so that you can teach in the second attention. But don't just go out there and go, oh wow, I see an energy field over there. It's like there's this white ball of energy over there? I'm going to cast my aura into it. It'll radiate it, I don't know. It's beautiful. Yeah, but yeah, the advanced teachings come with a lot of don't mess around, don't mess up, don't mess up. Do it right. If you want to do this more, teach. Teach someone, teach something, and then naturally it will occur. You'll become more aware, and then it becomes stronger. Okay. Good job. This is a very advanced teaching. Respect it. Do it right. Don't mess up. But this is a gateway to a very, very, very wonderful, enlightened ability to help others. I have a question on behalf of some of the Bodhans. Not all of them have gotten the teaching empowerment. Can they watch it from the video? If you haven't gotten the teaching empowerment, hang around. At this point, you can push the envelope. But there's certain empowerments that help you do it more. Definitely work on projecting and looking back at yourself. That alone is like mind blowing. And that's the other thing. You can project yourself anywhere in the world.

0:58:13
I do it all the time.

0:58:14
And then you can be aware in that place. And then if you know someone and you want to help them, I mean, don't get into spending this energy in attachment. It has to be coming from love. Because if you're all, oh, you know, my mom complains. So I'm gonna go and do my mom thing. Help my mom, give my mom some energy. That would be a waste. It has to come from love. But if you're like, I love my mom, and that can't be with her because she's all the way in this other country, then you could do it. Can't come from self. You can make so many mistakes with this. You have to do it in the most pure way. Yeah. Follow, and if you have questions, you can follow up with, you know, mentor or me. But this is, this unveils a tremendous power. And you need to respect it and honor it properly. And then you can use it to do amazing things. But if you mess do it out of vanity or power seeking, it will create such horrible karma for you that it's a tremendous pain. So only follow exactly the way that I'm saying. If you want to do something different and get creative, ask your mentor or ask me. And then we'll say, now!

1:00:04
Now!

1:00:05
All right.

1:00:06
I want to say thank you so much to the Bodhans. I have a great appreciation for you. I think you're doing a really wonderful job. And I'm so inspired that I wanted to give you this higher teaching. This isn't advanced teaching. And also, in the second attention, I created a way for you to understand it and be okay, and enough warning for you to say, don't step out of what you're not doing, what you're not capable of. And Shodans, to say, don't step out of what you're not doing, what you're not capable of. And Shodans, should understand the correct way. Okay, thank you so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
