0:00:00
Hello everyone, welcome. We're going to begin with meditation. So please sit up nice and straight. Bring the focus to the heart chakra. We're going to sit for one song. Let's begin.

0:00:16
So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the Thank you. the the the the So, the the the the the the the Thank you. the the the the So Thank you. Alright, today I'd like to talk about Buddha nature. Simply, your enlightened essence. It is who you are beyond conditional awareness, beyond self-identification, and beyond limited ideas, limited views. Enlightened awareness, it's innate being. It is the awakened and eternal and most essential aspect of your being. Buddha nature is your non-dual, liberated nature. It is unmanifest, unborn, unseen, being and undying.

0:05:20
It is who you are beyond any grasping, clinging, attachment, aversion. It is pure mind, unmarred and eternal. Buddha nature is ever-present awareness. It's not something that you can grasp with the finite mind. It's something that you know in the awakened mind. You're only able to see part of the picture and if that's the only part of the picture that you identify with, then you struggle and there's a lot of strife and suffering. But when you identify the Buddha nature within you, when you open your awakened mind, open your heart to who you are, then there's a great liberation. There's peace, balance, happiness, fulfillment. There's a great story of a Native American woman that illustrates Buddha nature. So this Apache woman was having a lot of trouble. She was very confused and lost and had a really hard time. And she was a little disgruntled and a little out of balance. And so she would go off on these vision quests to try to find the answer. And on one of her vision quests, she came up with this idea that she needed to find the crystal spring because the crystal spring had powerful medicine. Powerful medicine that would be able to heal her spirit. So she's looking around for it and finally she decides to go to this great shaman and say, do you know where, you know, so she goes and says, do you know where the Crystal Spring is? And he says, yes, I do. And she says, what do I do to get to the Crystal Spring? And he says, okay, so see that river? Follow that river to the source. So she walks down to the river, follows the river for miles and miles, days and days, finally comes to a mountain and starts going up the mountain and it goes from this big river to a big stream and finally to a small stream and way up the mountain she's expecting to find the crystal spring but the stream just dies out. And she's like, what? What's going on? And then it starts raining and then the water just forms and goes right into that stream. So she's at the beginning of the stream where she wanted to find the crystal spring and it's just not there. So she sits down, she looks out and sees this beautiful view from the top of the mountain and then she completely is fulfilled. She's completely happy. All of her dissatisfaction goes away. She just is in a moment of peace and bliss. And then she comes down after a while to the shaman and she says, Oh, I feel so much better. Everything's great. He's like, Okay, great. So let's go back to your village. So they go back to the village and everyone sees her and she's very happy. And they say to her, Welcome home, Crystal Spring. That was her name. She had forgotten herself. She had lost herself. That's why I like that story so much. She's all like, I've got to find this person. I've got to find this thing. And it's you that you've got to find. The The thing about it is it can never be lost. You can't lose Buddha nature. It's like losing a hippopotamus with no legs. Where do you find it? Right where you left it. So with Buddha nature, Buddha nature cannot be lost and it cannot be attained. It simply is. It is. That's the innate truth of your being. It's the eternal truth of your being. So we think that, you know, from our conditioned mind, from the finite view of looking at things a certain way, that it's not there. But it And that's the big and great truth. It's like there was this fire at a shoe factory and many soles were lost. Now, shoes can burn. Everything in the manifest world is impermanent. A mountain that you see will someday be a valley. A great sea will someday be a desert. Everything that exists changes. It becomes its opposite. If there's life, there will be death. And that is the world of form, the finite world. But Buddha nature is the enlightened nature, it is eternal and it is in a sense never changing. It changes so much it never changes. So this is the great truth. The thing that Crystal Spring did was forgot that truth and existed only in the impermanent awareness of life. And then forgetting her true nature, she was very, very upset. She suffered. She struggled. And then when she finally found herself, then she knew what was going on. It's like, yesterday I lost my mood ring. I don't know how I feel So, you have to know yourself, and not just what your mood reading tells you at the moment. You have to know yourself, not just the surface, the finite aspect of the mind. You have to know your heart, and then you know your Buddha nature. So there's two aspects of Buddha nature. There's potential and then there's development. So potential is the ultimate truth that you actually are Buddha. But then you say, wow, I don't feel like Buddha because you don't see it. And then developmental Buddha nature is that blossoming, opening and understanding and seeing the whole truth of your enlightened self. So the lotus, it's a beautiful flower, but the seed starts in the mud, in the muck of a pond or a lake. And so that's where we start with our potential. We're sitting around in maya, in the world, in the finite world, and all we do is sit around and see muck. But within us is that potential to be a beautiful flower. But we start in a condition of muck, but that potential is there. And so, Buddha nature is your enlightened potential.

0:15:32
And then a beautiful flower opens on top.

0:15:49
And that is what we call Buddha nature. The blossoming, the unfoldment of that innate potential. So there's a need to do something. If you just say, yeah, I've got Buddha nature in me, and you don't foster it, develop it, and bring it out, then it doesn't come to its fulfillment. Then you're still perceiving just a muck. So it's important to develop yourself, to do something. So in Buddhist practice, through meditation, mindfulness, yoga, all aspects of Buddhist practice bring you to develop your Buddha nature. It exposes the Buddha nature within you. It brings it about, it unravels it and Mood and Nature blossoms. So this is why we practice. This is why we put effort into something, into our practice, because it brings us to that essential, pristine, eternal state of awareness of our innate nature of enlightenment. Now, it's like this in any discipline. If you apply yourself to a discipline, even though you might start off bad at something, you can master it. And through discipline and mastery, a strength grows in you. So in Buddhism, the strength that grows is that essential essential awareness of your enlightenment. But in any discipline, if you apply yourself, you develop personal power and get strong and beautiful results. There was a woman who exemplifies this idea. Her name was Wilma Rudolph. And she was an African-American woman who was born very poor and she eventually became an Olympian. She had world records for like the 102 hundred meter dash. And she won three gold medals. And so she was a very accomplished athlete. Now, when she started off, born to this poor family, and then she got polio. She won the 1956 Olympics, where she won these gold medals. So it was a while back. So she had a pulley, and she was paralyzed, her left leg. And she eventually got a little bit better, a little bit better, and she trained and pushed and worked on it, but she had to wear braces on her leg until she was 12. But then she kept on exercising and training and pushing. And so by the time she was 14, she was playing on her school basketball team. And she was really good. At one of the basketball games, it just so happened that the local university track coach was there. And he saw her running with the basketball and he said, she's really fast. So he said, I'm going to train her. So he brought this 14 year old girl to Tennessee State and he started training her in track. And she started, you know, running and running and running. And then she got, and then she started doing really well. She won meets and things like that. And then when she was 16, that's when she went to the Olympics. So she went from having to wear a brace at the age of 12 to the Olympics at the age of 16. So that's like the lotus going from the muck to flowering. If you apply yourself, even if you're at a disadvantage, you can do great things. Now, Buddha nature is not the soul as we think of it kind of in a western sense. So this idea of the soul is this idea that you're here and then you're going to go somewhere else. And people think about that with reincarnation too. They're like, I'm here, then I'm going to die, and I'll be reborn somewhere else. Western, you're like, I'm here, I'm going to die, then I'm going to either be in heaven or hell. Right? But there's this permanent idea of I. I'm going to be here, then this will happen to me, and then this will happen to me. That's not Buddha nature is empty of this idea of an I, an eternal soul. Not that there isn't an eternal soul, because Buddha nature is the eternal soul, it's that there's no self in it. It is empty of the I, empty of the self. So, Buddha nature is fluid. It's not a fixed self, it's a fluid, eternal being. I have a student who, when I met her, she just said, a lot of stuff going on in my life. I don't know what's going to happen. No big deal." And she's like, she had a very fixed idea of being just who she was, who she, you know, found out, you know, from society and family and religion. She's like, I'm just this, that's She learned computer programming and got a well-paying tech job. And then she changed her idea of who she was. She said, oh, now I'm capable of this. And then she got a black belt in martial arts. And that, again, changed this idea. Instead of, I'm only this, she was like, oh, I'm this cool thing. And I'm this other cool thing. So she was able to change and change and change. Then she did her job yoga and yoga projects, and then had great successes doing that, and that kept changing who she was. If she was that same self from the beginning, she couldn't be fluid and transform to those other things. So this is the true sense of who you are, which is no particular way, a fluid way, but a way that resides in awareness and enlightenment. So, Buddha nature is not only in you, it's in all people, everyone. And it's in all animals and all plants. So, Buddha nature. You can see the enlightened principle of being in anything. Even a rat. You know what you call an enlightened rat? A Budapest. In Tibetan Buddhism they have these thangkas, they paint these thangkas of the Buddhas and of the Bodhisattvas and the saints. And they often have animals next to the Bodhisattva. Sometimes a lion, maybe a peacock, all sorts of things. Kubera is the Bodhisattva of the Welsh. And he has a little mongoose, it spits out precious jewels. And so, this is a way of showing the Buddha nature of the animal, that the animal is one with the Bodhisattva, that the animal does something magical and offers enlightened wealth or enlightened teachings. So every animal has Buddha nature. Every animal. Every plant has Buddha nature. You can go look at a flower. Sometimes it's beautiful to meditate on a flower. Look at a flower, open your eyes, meditate. Because flowers have a beautiful enlightened essence, a very pure vibration. So it's nice to meditate on it somehow. Yeah, but you know, every plant has Buddha nature. I mean, that guy Moses just looked at a bush and he said, ah, right? It's true. And, you know, the Druids used to see God in trees. So every animal, every plant has buddha nature but everything has buddha nature even uh non-sentient things have buddha nature um even a silver spoon has buddha nature and the silver spoon would say once they're once they discover their buddha nature they would say, now I am aware.

0:26:27
So anyway, but actually it reminds me

0:26:30
of a really cute story of Krishna. Krishna, when he was a little kid, like three years old or something, he was sitting around playing with dirt and he was actually eating dirt. He was putting a lot of dirt in his mouth. His mother said, Krishna, stop putting that dirt in your mouth. And he's all, uh-uh, uh-uh. And she's like, you put dirt in your mouth. And he's all, uh-uh, uh-uh. And she's like, then open your mouth and show me. And he's all, uh-uh, uh-uh. And she says, open your mouth, show me. Then he opens his mouth, and his mouth is full of dirt. But when he opens his mouth and she looks to see if there's dirt in his mouth, she sees eternity. And she has this big experience. She's like, wow, what just happened? And that's how we got out of getting in trouble for eating her. Yeah, but sometimes I take my students to places of power in Hawaii or in the And we go and look at things, like we might find a powerful mountain and look at that mountain and we can see the Buddha nature of the mountain. We turn our attention from the physical world and we start seeing the subtle physical. We see the mountain in the night start shining or we see the mountain in the night just disappear, or we see many dimensions in the mountain. So, Buddha nature is in all things. It's not so difficult for you to identify your Buddha nature if you let go. If you let go of judgment, if you let go of wanting something and not wanting something, if you just accept yourself, accept the moment, accept whatever is happening, whether it's pleasurable or painful, if you just accept your life, accept your mind, accept your being, then Buddha nature is easy to see. The problem is that very often people are kind of trying for something. They have an idea, a plan, and they've got to go in a certain direction, and they've got to stay away from something else. And that all obscures Buddha nature. Acceptance, that's why we meditate, being in the moment is accepting life, which reminds me of a story. So a man goes to a Zen master and says, I want to find enlightenment, what do I do? And the Zen master says, well, sit with me to meditate. So he sits with the master, they start meditating, then he gets this idea, he's like, Master, should I study the spiritual scriptures? If I memorize the Heart Sutra, then maybe I'll know my enlightenment, maybe I'll know my Buddha nature. So he gets up, walks away, and he goes and starts reading the sutra. And he reads it and reads it and reads it and reads it, but he doesn't find enlightenment. So he goes back to the master, Master, how do I find enlightenment? The master says, sit with me and meditate. And then so he sits with them, starts meditating, then he gets this idea, you know what, there's a mountain temple, and it's high up in the mountains, and it's a very special, sacred place. If I go there, maybe I'll find my enlightenment." So he gets up and walks up to the mountain, looking for his enlightenment, looking for his Mood of Nature, and nothing. So then he comes way back, and then he says, Master, where's my enlightenment? How do I find it? Master says, sit. And then of course he has to go do something else, and then it goes on and on, and finally, you know, after trying everything, going through his plan, I must do something, I gotta do this, I can't just do that, finally he exhausts everything and sits down with the Master and meditates. And then in letting go of his plans, accepting the moment, not trying to grasp at one thing or run away from another thing. He sits, stills his mind, and then he has satori, enlightened realization. So, if you can meditate and really let go of running to one thing or another thing, in meditation, even if you're a beginner, it's very easy to still your mind, you have a spiritual experience, something changes. And that's your Buddha nature. It's not so difficult to find. The thing that obscures us from seeing Buddha nature is what we call in Buddhism the three poisons are greed, anger, and ignorance. These are said to be the three things that work in all sorts of combinations to make all of our suffering. So any kind of greed will create suffering, and then it could also get mixed with anger. Any kind of anger creates suffering, and that can get mixed with ignorance. Any kind of ignorance causes suffering. So these are the things that we always are mindful of in practice. Let go of greed. Let go of anger. And then practice. Emerge from ignorance. So this man goes to a Zen master, modern times, and he says, Zen master, I have this suffering going on with my marriage, and there's three things that really, really, really caused my suffering. So the Zen master says, well, tell me, what's the first thing? He says, well, I am constantly cheating on my wife. And it drives, you know, like she doesn't know about it, but it really makes me feel bad. So it's horrible. And then he goes, yeah, okay. And so then the Zen master says, oh, look, I'll get some tea. Maybe you can tell me about it. So he goes and gets tea, pours some tea, but he also brings cookies, a plate full of cookies. And then he goes, tell me about it. And he's, the guy's sitting there going, well, you know, I met this girl at work and I met this girl at the zoo and, you know, my wife's great, but you know, all this stuff. And while he's talking, he's just eating cookies, cookies, cookies, cookies. Lots of cookies. And then, at one point, the Zen master touches his hand when he goes for another cookie, and he goes, no, no, no, do you see what you're doing? And then he thinks about it, and he says, I have, he had insight, he said, I'm greedy. This is the part of me that is greedy and it's the same energy that is getting me to want to cheat on my wife. I should just be happy. If I had one cookie, that's enough. So he has this insight and he figures it out. And then the zylester says, yeah, that, and I was going to say, you're getting fat. So then he said, what's the next step? So he had the first realization, letting go of his greed. He said, the second thing is that I get really angry at my wife because sometimes she corrects me. Like I'm doing something and she'll say, don't do that, and she'll give me a correction. And then I try to explain to her why I'm doing it or what I'm doing, and then it turns into this big argument and I get so angry. And then Zen Master says, oh, okay. He said, I've got the perfect thing. Next time your wife corrects you, just go and get a glass of water and take a sip and swirl the water in your mouth for 10 seconds and all your anger will be gone. And then he goes, really? Is the water magical? Like, how, why is it going to work? You know, is it like, is this like an amazing zen technique? And the Zen master says, yes, that and keeping your mouth shut will get you out of anger. So he realizes, OK, I'm creating my anger by creating an argument. And then finally, he says, well, the third thing is that my wife says I'm ignorant and indifferent. And then Zen Master says, well, when she says that to you, what do you say? And then he says, I tell him, I tell my wife, I don't know what you're talking about, and I don't even care. And then the Zen master points at him, and then he realizes it. He goes, wow, I'm being ignorant.

0:36:40
And then, having learned these lessons,

0:36:42
he bows to the Zen master, and goes home and has a harmonious happy marriage. With no greed, no anger, and no more ignorance. So, these three poisons, when they come in, they cloud your vision. You can't see truth, and you just don't see what's there. You can't perceive reality, because it clouds your vision of life. Kind of like, you know, we're here in Hawaii, if you look out at a sunset, if there's clouds, you don't see the sunset, but if the clouds aren't there, beautiful sunset. Yeah, just like that. So, there was a temple in China, a Buddhist temple. And one day, someone donated to them a Buddhist statue. And it was this old, kind of crusty stone statue that was not in good shape. The features of the Buddhist face was all messed up. It's just like not such a very good Buddha. So they kind of shoved it in the corner somewhere in the garden. They're just like, let's put it over there. It's not a really beautiful statue. And then one day there was a monk who was raking leaves and he accidentally hit the Buddha with a rake. where he hit the Buddha, it chipped off some of the stone. And then under the stone that he chipped off, he could see a little shiny piece of gold. And then he started chipping off more and chipping off more. And it was a gold statue. It's a solid gold Buddha statue. Beautiful. Everything was like, all the features were fine. It was like amazingly beautifully done. It was just covered over. This is what the three poisons do. It covers over the Buddha nature. So, there's a secret to dealing with the three poisons. It's a way to transform the poisons into the pathway of awakening, transforming the poisons into Buddha nature. And this is to hold them gently. So if anger comes up and you say, oh, can't have anger, this is bad, that'll go away from anger, then you just run away, it's going to come back. You're going to go, well, that does look like a tasty ham sandwich, you know, or something. You know, you're going to really get back into it. And if ignorance comes up, you're not even going to notice because you're so ignorant. So what you have to do is this secret called holding gently. You have to face all of your suffering. You have to face it, you have to be honest with it. You have to look at it for real with no reaction. And that's holding it gently. Not solving it, not taking action, not doing this and that and the other thing, it's holding it gently. Like I remember when I was a kid growing up in California, we were up in Auburn, Sacramento area, and that's where they used to have the 49ers panning for gold. So I was doing that as a kid. And I remember one time I just reached into the river and I just had a handful of dirt and pebbles and I just held that in the river and the water would run by and then little by little the dirt would go away, the pebbles would fall away and then I just remember seeing like four little specks of gold. Just it was there. It's just that I held it gently and eventually the water ran and pushed away the other stuff until I had the four little

0:41:18
specks of gold.

0:41:20
So the way that we do that is meditation. That's the essence. Meditation is still in the mind.

0:41:31
Things will come up.

0:41:32
Don't react to them. Don't grab onto thoughts and ideas and emotions. Things come up and let them go. Bring the focus back to the child. And in your mindfulness, when you're looking at an anger or desire, then you don't run away from it, you come into contact with it without reaction, and it falls away. Now, enlightenment is within you and in order to blossom into the awareness of that enlightenment,

0:42:19
you have to be gentle.

0:42:20
You have to gently hold everything in your life and everything in your mind and then the enlightened presence becomes foremost. Now we don't normally see it in ourselves first. We normally, that's why we go through a teacher, we normally see enlightenment in a teacher first. Someone who's gone through that process, someone who nature exists in that internal consciousness. When you can see them, you can see Buddha nature. But when you see it in another person, teacher, then also you start to see it in yourself. So I'm going to do a transmission teaching, teaching of Buddha nature. You can see Buddha nature in me, and then that opens the Buddha nature within you. So sit up nice and straight. We're going to sit for one song. I'd like you to have a gentle focus on the third eye and look towards me. Let's begin. you.

0:43:34
So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Thank you. Right, wonderful. Okay, so, you know, Buddha nature is a very positive and optimistic view of the self and reality.

0:46:35
It says that, yeah, you know, I might see the muck around, but I know that I'm a lotus. I might see that there's hardship, pain, difficulty, there might be suffering, but the promise of Buddha nature is that that is temporary, that that is a condition that will pass, and that the essential condition of your being is enlightened. So thank you all. of your being is enlightened. of your being is enlightened.

0:48:03
So thank you all.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
