0:00:00
Hello everyone and welcome to this month's business yoga satsang. I'm Parvati and we're going to start off with a one song meditation on the heart.

0:00:16
the the the the Thank you. the the the the the the the the So So the the the so So, So, Hwa-Jeon has invited me today to share with you a few stories of my experiences relating to enlightened success. This is the topic that he talked about in the last satsang. What is enlightened success? success. It is the result of our spiritual practice, the result of the effort we put into meditation, mindfulness, compassion, karma yoga, and job yoga. And as Ajahn was

0:03:45
describing, there are many different forms of enlightened success. It can result in positive relationships. It can result in career success. And all of the kinds of manifestations of enlightened success have something in common. They all bring bring you to a better place physically and spiritually. So enlightened success is always something that's very elevating in your life. Now, one of the big focuses in our school is on work, you know, through karma yoga, career, job yoga. And it's very easy in this age, you could say, to think of work as simply some kind of physical task. You know, thinking of it maybe as simply just toil, but nothing else, very surface level. learn in this school is that work is actually an access point to spirit and it's a great aid in spiritual development. So for me, I didn't really kind of happen to, you could until I myself understood the nature of work. When I met Sambara, I was 17. I was in my last year of high school. I didn't have a lot of experience with work and I wasn't too sure what I wanted to do when I grew up. So, when Sambara told me about computer programming and all the benefits that it could have in my life, both physically and spiritually, I thought it was a good deal. It made logical sense, but it also felt true. There was something about it that just felt really grounded and real. So I started learning computer programming. And at that time I was also learning programming from Mandela, a contemporary of agents and a master technologist, whom many of you have had the fortunate opportunity to meet as well. crazy amazing adventure to learn programming and it was super difficult. You know I had a really hard time for about a year and a half. I felt like I had a fuzzy brain literally as I was figuring out the the different structures of programming and trying to really work out blocks in myself. And this was a really intense practice for me. It was not easy by any means. And I remember this one day we were in Hawaii at that time on Oahu, and it was this beautiful bright sunny day and Mandala came over to me and she gave me a task that would totally blow my world apart. She asked me to create a business requirements document for the product that we were working on. This request totally caught me off guard because I was figuring out how to push buttons on the computer and kind of make things run. And yet here was, you know, Mandala asking me to do something that seemed completely unrelated. And not to mention I had no idea what a requirements document was or how to write one. So I was terrified and shocked, but at the same time, I saw that there was some value to what Mandala was asking me to do. She wouldn't ask me to do something if it wasn't worth it, if there wasn't something behind it. And so I decided to work on it. I decided to struggle through it and figure out the baby steps I needed to take to get that task moving. And of course, the first step was to create a new file, which as easy as it may sound today was actually really hard for me. But in this process, in this struggle, I learned two really important things that would actually set the way that I would approach work moving forward into all of my future projects and, you know, forever. The first was that when Mandala gave me this task and I started engaging in it, it opened up these amazing, mystical, and kind of other worldly dimensions of communication that are very important in business. So I started understanding communication structures, the importance of being able to bring people together around requirements in a way that makes sense, in a way that can help people and teams and businesses move forward. So there was a lot that was kind of jam-packed in this seeing that really opened my eyes beyond the physical task of putting words in a document. So this really showed me that work is spiritual. You know, we're not just physical beings, we're also spiritual beings, and it just doesn't make sense to think of them as separate. And similarly in work, you know, I couldn't think of work as just physical anymore. It was both physical and spiritual. And I could see through my experience how it led to a lot of transformation in my mind and my awareness. And it really set the way that I would approach work in my future projects and eventually get me to a place where I would be able to succeed as the CTO of AppBuddy. Now the second thing that I understood through this this process of this seemingly small task was, you know, I noticed the transformations that were happening. And, you know, I noticed that the ROI was awesome, the return on investment. So, you know, I spent a lot of time, energy on figuring this thing out and the results were just astounding. And I had this sense that this type of work was really worth my time. It was worth doing. In mysticism, there's a concept called the worthy opponent. And what it means is that at some point in time, you have to face what Don Juan would call a committed adversary. You have to face this challenge in order to succeed as a warrior, in order to raise your awareness up to the next level. And when you do that, it's powerful and amazing, and you get to kind of learn the next thing. Without doing that, you're kind of stuck in the same place. So I had this experience of work becoming my worthy opponent. And it wasn't just in this one task. It was in every task that I worked on, on every project, every karma yoga project, every contract. Nothing was too small. of work being spiritual in its essence and also work being worth doing really helped me, it helped me succeed in the long run

0:14:09
and also in the short run.

0:14:11
So what started happening was I started really enjoying work. It became super fun and very jolly. And I just, I had so much energy and I was gaining new awarenesses. I gained a lot of clarity and it was like the coolest snowball effect you know in mystic learning that I've experienced. So sometimes work can feel risky. There's always risks involved. And when I talk about work, I'm talking about not just job yoga. I'm also talking about karma yoga. So we have to take risks in this process. It's part of facing a worthy opponent. And I myself faced a lot of risks and every risk that I faced, you know, it always turned out better than I could ever hope for. I remember in, let's see, we had moved from Hawaii to Chicago and I was going for my very first contract. And I remember walking around in downtown Chicago, and it was, it was still snowing at that time. And I was walking around going to interviews. And it was a beautiful feeling to be in this amazing city that had wonderful tonal and wonderful energy. And you know, it was hard for me as well. I was afraid to go talk to people to interview, but this was a risk and it was part of the path. And by the time I was 20, I landed my first contract and by my second contract, I was making a six figure income. So this is a pretty fast path to success for me. And I was not in any way a good negotiator in terms of rate. I just had a really good attitude, and I set my intent on the task. Another beautiful way that enlightened success happens is through unity. Unity requires a lot of selflessness, and it itself results in amazing things like positive relationships. One of my favorite stories about AppBuddy was the process of creating our core values. Now, at this time, we were a couple years into AppBuddy, and we were starting to become a real company with real sales and real customers. So stuff was getting real and we needed to have real things like a mission and core values. So Dharma, who was the CEO of AppBuddy and I, we saw it was time to have these core values and we called together a meeting, a magical meeting. I think we had about 15 or 20 yogis at that time. And we all met at the Campbell office, which was this really tiny kind of janky office. It was our first one. And we all kind of filed in and we had this amazing brainstorm session and discussion about what our core values should be. And it was really amazing to observe this process because this is a room full of a lot of black belts at that time, really intense beings, people who had been practicing for many years. And the quality that I saw the most in that process was care. And this really beautiful place of heart. So when I observed that, I really saw these amazing And we focused on this very magical task to help our, our karma yoga company, move to the next level. So, we had a lot of different ideas. The one that we all agreed on without a lot of discussion was practice compassion. And this became our number one core value at the top of our list. Now, this might seem a little bit unusual for a business to have compassion as a core value. Because it seems kind of unrelated. It doesn't really convey a sense of business value. And yet, this one core value really set the tone of our company, where we came from, when we interacted with people, where we came from when we coded the software, where we came from when we developed our partnerships, and even where we came from when we dealt with troublemakers and people, companies who wanted to squash us. And it was this core value that came from this place of unity that really helped us succeed in the long run. As a very small example of how the core value affected people, I remember I had a one-on-one meeting with our QA manager at that time, and she told me how her husband and her friends had noticed a significant change in her. They noticed that she started listening, like really listening. And she said that it was because of how the AppBuddy engineering team worked with her. They came from a place of openness and compassion and listening. And she was able to change a pattern in herself of, you know, shutting others down by feeling this heart, really this compassion from the AAPADI team and learning a different way, learning a higher way, and having a greater positivity in her life because of it. And that's just one small example. My other favorite time in AAPADI was the time when we would all come together, rally together, to deliver for this giant conference called Dreamforce. So Dreamforce is arguably the largest technology conference that is held in the United States and possibly the world. It is a conference that showcases a lot of different Salesforce technology partners, service partners, and it's a place where Salesforce also talks about their roadmap and new innovations. And it's a really huge deal. So this was a really important time for AppBuddy in terms of succeeding and growing year after year. It was such a huge effort that it required us to prepare for months in advance. We would spend at least four or five months before the actual conference, you know, working on the technology, you know, the, the, the people who are on the conference showroom floor, be able to talk to them more easily and in a more accessible way. You know, every single person in every single department at that time when we were focusing on delivering for a Dreamforce conference was laser focused. And it was incredible. I had never been in such an intense and selfless, you know, environment with so many people goal and every time being able to deliver spectacular results. And every year, you know, we did this for eight years. I could see how we had become more and more refined. Our booth graphics got better, you know, the way our sales pitches were delivered got better, our technology got better, and the amount of beautiful selflessness and dedication that came from every single person to support this process and this conference that would eventually lead to a lot more sales was just, it was just mind-blowing. And so, you know, At Buddy success ultimately happened because of this great act of unity and being able to come together to deliver for this conference. Enlightened success comes from sharing the way. Sharing the way can come in many different forms. It can be through software products, services. It can be through just helping someone out, you know, sharing a kind word. Any little way that you can help is very transformative and supportive and brings people to a higher place. And I learned how to play piano and viola, and that was nice. I've always had a really deep way of connecting to music. And after I joined the study, I found that the way that I love to share light the most was actually through music. And so we have something called music yoga in this school. And it is where we create music specifically designed for meditation. This music. Really, it, it contains in itself dimensions of white and gold white dimensions that are very conducive to high states of mind, and brings those dimensions, makes them accessible to meditators so that they can be brought up into those high and beautiful states of awareness. So when I learned about music yoga, I embarked on another crazy adventure of learning how to compose music, which for me has been a lot harder than learning to program. It's a very sophisticated process that requires a lot of selflessness in different ways, and it requires developing a third ear, as Ajaan would call it, being able to hear music from other dimensions, and having the seeing and the skills to be able to translate music from those dimensions into our physical world in a song form. And then working with a team to refine that song form into its final product.

0:28:29
So one way that we practice music yoga

0:28:32
is by visiting different places of power, of nature, of spirit, and being open to the dimensions that are there, being dimensions that are high and helpful for meditation, and then bringing those dimensions into the accessible form of music. In 2019, Ajahn took a large group of us to India on a great India pilgrimage. And there are many amazing spiritual places, holy places, a lot of places where saints and enlightened beings meditated and had great teachings. And we traveled all around India experiencing these places. So one of the places that we visited is called the Garaknath Temple. This was a place in Hardwar in northern India. A place that, you know, initially I didn't really think had anything spiritual about it because it was just full of people and noise and rickshaws and it seemed kind of crazy. But a little ways off the street, we walked into this courtyard and entered this room and then entered a smaller room into a little cave. Now she was on that trip in that group and we were in that cave and we had an amazing and very insightful meditation there. He is also on the music yoga team and is an accomplished musician. And he shared with me his scene, which I'm going to share with you today. cave, when we meditate in these special places, when we come from a place of humility, it's possible to ask for something, to be shown something, or maybe how to solve something that we're working on in spirit. And so in Chi's meditation, he asked to be shown the music of that place. And so what happened was he was transported into, let's call it the Garaknath realm. It's a place kind of beyond space and time into this magical place. And by the way, Bharatnath is a famous Hindu yogi and saint. So, he was transported into this place, and with a lot of humility, he asked to be shown the music of that place, of this magical dimension. And what he was shown totally blew his mind. He was shown a golden yantra and Garak Nath, this saint who was showing this to him, turned it into a three-dimensional structure. And then he opened up Chi's third eye and third ears to show him how the music in that dimension sounded because the physics of that place was different than the physics of our world. Now this is all amazing and wonderful and cool, but the thing that she did was he was able to capture those dimensions, those super magical dimensions, into a song form. And he worked with the music team on bringing those dimensions through to share them with all of you. So this is the magic of music yoga. Now I also had a really bright scene in that meditation. At that time I was very focused on AppBuddy success. It was a few months before our acquisition and that was the top thing in my mind. I couldn't think of anything else. And so my intent when I visited these places of power and insight was to see more deeply into how I could help ApBuddy succeed in its acquisition. So when I sat down and I was shot through space into this Garak Nakh realm, I asked to be shown what yogic success looks like. And Garak Moth appeared and he showed me this brilliant blue light. It was the light of his lineage and it was a light that is very conducive to yogic success. And he also showed me how to share this light with you. So that's what I'm going to do. We're going to meditate to the Garak Nath cave song. And I'd like you to focus on your third eye and bring to mind a blue light that's kind of the color of this, the blue in this notebook. And in this light, you know, you will, you'll have access to this amazing bright dimension of yogic success. Okay, so let's get started.

0:35:12
Get started.

0:35:13
the the the the the the the the the the the the So the the the the So you

0:37:27
Wonderful. Well, thank you, everybody, for that beautiful teaching. A very strong example

0:40:38
of enlightened success. So, here's something that we all know. If you do the right thing, things work out well. If you do the right thing in business, things work out well. If you do the right thing for exercise, things work out well. If you do the right thing in cooking, it works out well. So if you do the right thing, things work out well. You could exercise and become healthy and strong. It works out well. It's not that difficult. It's just that you do the right thing. Same thing in business. If you, business and career, if you do the right thing, you focus hard, you learn the right stuff, you work hard, you'll have success. It's the same thing in meditation, mindfulness, and yoga. In spirituality, you know, in India they often call yoga science. It's, if you Spiritually, it works out well. And physically, it works out well. That's the balance that we look for. We want to see that if we meditate well, then our business is good. If our business is good, our meditation becomes fun. That's the relationship we observe in Karma Yoga. So when Parvati was talking about her experiences, all of her experiences of enlightened success were that she was 17 and she came, you know, came in and was like, I don't know what I'm going to do. And I said, well, here are options. These are things that you can do that make sense and that there's a very powerful dharma. In the second attention, the practices that we cultivate, are very powerful dharmas. It's very strong. You get a lot of support from the structures that we have in the second intention. There's these invisible spiritual structures. So when I was telling her about computer programming, I wasn't just talking about, yeah, you know, you can make a lot of money, you can work from home, you know, you can work anywhere in the world, you know, all these wonderful things. It's good for your mind, develops concentration, focus, attention. These are all great things. But also, spiritually, there's something great about working as a programmer in technology. There's many other dimensions. That's why she felt there's something more to this, something good to this. It's a very powerful path of right livelihood. And then watching her, you know, she said she had a foggy brain, foggy mind.

0:44:27
Yeah, I understand, I went through that too.

0:44:29
You know, you have to develop your mind. You have to develop yourself. It takes time, and it takes effort. And then you get to a point of strength and mastery. And it happens definitely. If you do the right thing, you get the right result. So she did the right thing. She worked on it. It was hard. I remember, I was there. She was like, oh my gosh, it's impossible. I can't learn.

0:44:54
It's terrible.

0:44:55
And I'm like, no, keep trying. Work on it. Give it your all and you will succeed without a doubt. And I told her this when she was 17 or 18. And then she became a teacher. And I said, I'm going to teach you.

0:45:01
And she said, I'm going to teach you.

0:45:02
And I said, I'm going to teach you.

0:45:03
And she said, I'm going to teach you.

0:45:04
And I said, I'm going to teach you.

0:45:05
And she said, I'm going to teach you. And I said, I'm going to teach you. And she said, I'm going to teach you. And I said, I'm going to teach you. And I told her this when she was 17 or 18. And then she became the CTO of Apati, a successful Silicon Valley company. And that was a very, very, very powerful point. When she was able to overcome tremendous technical hardships. Like every customer left and right would have like a new requirement. Well, in our enterprise, we have this problem and we can't, we wanna buy your software, but we can't because of all of this. And then she solved problems, solved problems, massive technical problems, technical

0:46:11
problems. And

0:46:14
it's because she became a very strong technologist. From that 17-year-old who didn't know what she wanted to do, she did the right thing. And then in Chicago she got her, you know, she was like 19, 20 when she got her first job at a J.P. Morgan, I don't know, bank. I remember it was a financial institute. And she did a great job and grew in that company. And then she was a professional. She went from being like a 17-year-old trying to figure stuff out to a professional. And then she went to start a company with Dharma. They were the founders, those two. And that company was successful, had great success, and finally So, if you do the right thing, you have great results. If you meditate, you have great results. If you practice mindfulness, you have great results. And that's what we call enlightened success. Now, we're not all born with this knowledge of what the fundamentals, where you come from, to do the right thing. So, in this world you know that a lot of people don't do the right thing. They do the wrong thing and they suffer because of it. People are too greedy. People are too locked in on a silly idea. People are just fixed here, there, and everywhere. So that is what doesn't bring success Even if you can find a way to make some money It doesn't make success You know like look at Enron Those guys are smart. They knew how to work the system they did a whole bunch of things to make money a lot of money and then It all was a scam, all was false, and it all was a house of cards and all fell down. So it's not just pushing energy and ego to build the biggest thing that you could build. It's to be, it's to do it in the right way. The right way. The right way is not to lie Bernie Madoff and build something that builds and builds and makes lots of money, because that's growth and that's success and that's money. And that's, you know, like Americans go, yeah, it's good, until it falls down. Anything that's built off of... If it's not built on truth, it will fall eventually. If it's built on truth, it will always have success. So we focus on building things on truth. We call it the Dharma. If you follow the Dharma, there might be hardships. There's no shortcuts. You have to go through everything that you've got to go through. And if you do that, you will have enlightened success. So, Parvati's story is a story of enlightened success. Because she started off with, I don't know what I'm going to do with my job. This is an idea, it makes sense. Well, I'll do that." And she succeeded at that. And then she entered into a yoga business company and everything that evolved from there was all based on truth. They were like, we're incredible programmers, let's build something, get a group of great yogis together, experienced yogis, 10 years of job yoga and yoga projects, great team, let's move forward. And what do we do? Everyone follows Dharma, the truth. If you try to do shady, shifty things, and sell fear, you know, just all sorts of things. Like, oh, if you don't buy my insurance policy, all these problems might happen. There could be so many ways that you falsely try to make money. That is not the goodest way. It's not a way based on truth. If you do something based on truth, you will be successful. That's the thing that we want to do. We want to be good. We want to be good. Good means that you are in line with truth. There's also great. We've seen many Americans who are great. Great liars, great at deceit and bureaucracy, great at all sorts of this and that and getting their way. We've seen great businessmen, Bernie Madoff, Enron, do great things and then it all tumbled down. This reminds me of, as we say in English, And in an ancient age in India, there was a good soul born, a pure soul, an enlightened one born. His name was Rama. And then there was this great character, he was called the Rakshasa, the king of them. Let's see, that's like heavy metal. King of the heavy metal band of India, Bacchus. He was said to have 11 heads, and he was massive, and he was powerful, and when he demanded attention from the gods, he was great, powerful, big, shiny, his kingdom was like elevated, they had the greatest power, like his brother. His brother was like, if you ever run into any problem, I'll squash it. I forgot his name. Big guy. Anyway, so, like, he had all the parties, all the energy, all the greatness of power. And that's great. And that was, this is the epitome of American power. The Western world's power. nice clothes, good wine, good food, all these palaces, nice chariots, right? That's what Ravana had. And yet, this wonderful fellow, born in the subcontinent of India, his name His name was Rama and he was a good being. Good in the sense that he was completely aligned with the Dharma.

0:55:22
He was good.

0:55:24
And the Candyman of Candyland, Ravana, had the parties going on. The energy, like all this, all the cool stuff and yet this guy Rama was just a good being and then Ravana said, wow well I don't care about those good people but the wife of Rama, her name was Sita. She was known to be the most beautiful because she was so good. She was so beautiful. And he was like, well, I've got lots of really, really snazzy, beautiful, you know, girls here, but I want that pure one. So he took her and he brought her into his crazy, wonderful dimensions of wonderfulness. And he thought she would like it, and he wanted a pure being to be with him.

0:56:34
But she didn't like it.

0:56:36
She's like, no, I am good. A wonderful good. So, when he took her, Then Rama said, I need to bring my wife back and I need to bring my good to great. And when he brought his good, peaceful, following the Dharma, but it's powerful, to the greatest place on the world, all the power, the finesse, the savvy, he brought his good to them and faced this totally magnificent being, Ravana, and his brother.

0:57:34
What's his brother's name? I forgot.

0:57:38
No.

0:57:39
No, no, no, no, Brahma was a big brahmin. One of those who stayed for a long time. Kumbhakarna. Big. Kumbhakarna. You don't want to mess with this guy. But, Rama faced him. the greats, the most powerful, this place where it had the most energy, the greatest, the most scary, the intense. It's like New York City. It is. And the good comes from dharma, and the great can be a political figure who just paralyzes everybody with their great vision and their self-ego push. It could be something like that, or it could be anything, anything that grabs people's attention. It's Las Vegas of awareness. You go to Las Vegas, now many of you have never been to Las Vegas, it's crazy. It's a world of Maya and the higher kind of demigod realms. It's the chance of money. There's strip clubs where beautiful women will dance on you and you're like, oh, well, then why should I pull myself up? You know, things like that. It's just like everything, and there's so much food. You're like steak dinner and lobster tail for $11.95. Like, whoa, or go to Circus Circus and there's this giant beautiful buffet and all you have to do is be like an American and eat it. And so it's incredible. It's incredible stuff. So I'd have to say, you know, this is the Las Vegas of everything. But Sita wasn't happy in Las Vegas. She's like, I'm happier in another place. In a more simple place. A place of goodness. And then Ravana was like, why don't you like Vegas? We've got slot machines.

1:00:24
You could win a million.

1:00:26
It's like, that's how it was. And then Rama said, I gotta go and bring my wife back. There's a truth in our union. That's good. So I have to come there and face great. So Las Vegas is great. You know, many businessmen and politicians were great. They were great, but they were not good. They were not good. I mean, I like to go to Vegas too. When I There are so many, you can call them the greatest politicians and the greatest business people who are not good.

1:01:21
They're horrible.

1:01:22
They're terrible. They feel terrible. They make the most money, they get the most power, and they feel horrible. So it's not to be great, it's to be good. So Rama went to the great, powerful place, the Las Vegas, the ancient world, and where there was a lot of strength and power. He walked in and he said, I'm here to do good, to take back what is good. My wife that was stolen from me, this is the Dharma. And it created a conflict. And then his good overcame the great. And he was able to bring his wife back to the good land. And, as we do in Buddhism, in spirituality, we enlighten all. So Rama was his teacher. He was elevated out of that. He started with this desire and he was elevated. Okay, so, well this reminds me of another story that is useful. It's the story of Cisco Systems. the creator of what we call the Internet. So, there was a woman, Sandy Lerner, she had stock and she lived off of the earth and her farm. And she learned values because her, her aunt was like, we grow things so that we can share with the community. So she learned how to grow it and how it supported her and how sharing with the community enriched the community. And that she learned that was the way, a very simple way, a beautiful way. So, that is a way of truth that's doing the right thing. Farming is doing the right thing. It's chance of gardening. It is a very simple thing in farmer, her aunt, who knew the virtues of the earth and taught her a truth of the earth. I'm back. I'm going to have to do a little bit of editing for the rest of you. That's what you get! What was I talking about?

1:05:35
The communist system of power.

1:05:37
Yes, communism.

1:05:39
Yes, now, no, no, no, I just want to bring it down a level. She, Sandy Lerner, lived on a farm and she was taught the way of the farm. The farm is a truth. And if you do the right thing on the farm, it works out. And guess what happens if you do the wrong thing on a farm? It doesn't work out. She grew up learning the right thing on the farm. Then, she went to Chico State and she wanted to learn communist economics. That's her major. She got a degree in it, I think. And then she went on to her master's degree at Claremont in Southern California, which is a Claremont is a, by the way, a place of power, a university. And then she went there and then she said, hey, for all these things that we're trying to figure out with communist economics, we need some statistics behind it. We need to put some numbers behind it. That brought her to the computer room. And then, after doing that successfully, she went to Stanford. And when she walked into Stanford, she's like, I'm all into, you know, like these economics and trying to prove how everybody should be a communist. And then she walked into tech nerd land. And she had the chops because she was a programmer already. And she said, wait, that's better. And she let go of all these ideas. And she's like, tech is so pure, so strong, so good. That was like 1977, 78. And that was a beautiful time at Stanford, really strong technologists all together in one place, and they built something. They built mainframe computers, like no big deal, it's like brush off the elbow. They were like, no big deal. And then they started to build the interface from that mainframe to a terminal. The connection from a computer to showing something on a screen, invented. And then, they had multiple mainframe computers. How do you make them talk? And you know what you call that? Networking. networking, they created the most. Network to network, mainframe to mainframe. The thing that connects a machine. And now we call this the internet. And then, because they were making things happen, they got federal funding. They were like, wow, we need that kind of thing in America. So you guys in the big schools, MIT and Stanford, figure out how that works. So they got federal money to make computer talk and it was all public. Everything that they were creating wasn't just for the government. The government was giving them money to make something for the world. It wasn't just even for America. They were just like, build technology that makes computers talk.

1:10:13
And they did.

1:10:16
And they did it well. And her team at Stanford created the internet. They created networks. And they didn't sell it at first. They created it and it was very successful. Mean frames in Stanford talked. That was the most advanced network, local area network, in the world. And then it came down to Sandy Lerner's, like what she believed in, what she learned from the farm? You grow vegetables and you give it to people. It's a network. She learned a farm is a network. You don't just farm for yourself, you farm for your community. Even if you sell your stuff, it's to the community. Everyone gains something it. And then she said, all right, now that we developed this technology, the world can benefit from it. But Stanford said, no, no, no, we keep it. And she said, why? We got federal money that was for everyone. And Stanford just said, no, no, no, no, we want to keep it. It's ours, just for us. So Sandy Lerner said, this is not the truth. That's someone going into their self-identity. But the truth is on a farm, when you have a big tree that produces lots of apples, yeah, you eat like three or four apples and you give the rest to the community. And so she said, we have to give this to the community. So she took her partner, Len Bosak, and she said, me and you are going to start a new company and we're going to make this for everyone. And then she drove up to San Francisco from Palo Alto and she walked into the building, put $5 down and said, I'm making a company. They said, what do you want to call it? She's all, I'm in San Francisco. Let's call it Cisco Systems. $200 billion company right now. It's the backbone of the internet based on the people who created the backbone of the Internet. They invented it in Stanford. So, even the little silly, if you guys look at their trademark,

1:13:20
Cisco with the little Golden Gate Bridge,

1:13:22
Sandy Lerner drew that that day, and it's been that way. Okay, so they created this and then they sold it like mad. Everybody wanted it, but they had a tremendous hardship of growth. They couldn't keep up with the demand. And so they went to Sequoia, the biggest venture capital place that grew every major company. And Sequoia said, well, here's how you do it. You can keep 30%, we'll take 70%. We'll give you $2.5 million and you should be happy and we'll grow your company. And they grew Apple. Sequoia grew apple. So it's like, wow, you should probably follow that. And they did. They just wanted this to succeed. They only left, if Stanford was gonna sell it to the world, they would have just stayed there on salary. They just, they were like, it's right, let people have it. And they were like, we're not here about money. And so Sequoia can make it big, we can make it big. And then two years later, Sequoia brought in a new CEO who fired Sandy Lerner. And they were like, you're done. So Sandy just wanted to do the right thing, like a farm. You know how to grow an apple tree? Give an apple tree to everybody who wants an apple. And then they fired her. And she made a good bit of money out of it. $170 million and she gave 70% of it away to charities that she believed in. She still had a lot of money. And then she started to see a problem living in the Bay Area. If your dog got lost, Marin, San Francisco, Alameda, Daly City, the different dog sanctuaries or pet places, SPCA we call it, they don't even know, they didn't know how to talk. So it's like, oh, if your dog got lost, it might be in a different place. And then they might say, you got 10 days before you put it to sleep. And so it's like, whoa. So she created this thing called PetNet. And she built it herself. And it's a way where in the Bay Area, and still there today, it's like, if a dog comes up, well, now they have the chip. But if a dog comes up with a little tag and says, I'm Joe's dog, and Joe's from San Jose, but somehow the dog got lost to Marin and somehow San Jose got the dog, you're not going to kill the dog. So this was another part of her coming out of farming, understanding animals and caring for the situation. So she just by herself, you know, put her money in and built this thing. Pet pen. Still exists. So, that was just another thing. Just another way. And I think that brought her a lot of happiness. I don't think she was very happy with the system. She did the right thing, and then they fired her. Then she did this really good thing. And then, she did more than that. She did something way out of the left field. So she was kind of like different. And then her aunt was saying, well I have this niece who is also different like you. And like both of you, you never wear makeup, you don't dress well, and like you're successful, shouldn't you look successful? And she's like, I don't like that. But she saw the suffering of her niece. And she said, well, let me talk to my niece. And her niece is like, I don't like all these things you see in magazines, that's not me. And then she's like, everyone's wearing like pink lipstick and like red giant fingernails and she's like, that's not me. So she said, it's not me either. I see that there's something that we can do to help people out, help women who are having a hard time with image. Like she grew up all her life wanting to be a communist and looking like a nerd, right? And then she said, well, we can do a new thing. And they created a new cosmetic company. She created, I think it was called Urban Decor? Decay. Oh, you know, okay. Yeah, it's like that half a billion dollar company. Urban Decay. And it's going away from all of the classic pinks and reds and rosy cheeks. And it's like, you know, they do have actually black fingernail polish, but it's like blue and just different things for different people to make them be able to express themselves. And it's just like another thing. And then, after that, she sold that company to Louis Vuitton, by the way. And then she went off, the latest thing was making a farm again. So she has this massive farm in Virginia, and it's sustainable and organic, and she says that's the hardest job she ever had. She says, you know, starting six years ago was hard, but that one she's like, this is really, really hard. So it's a beautiful circle for her. It starts with learning life from a farm. If you do the right thing, your crops grow. If you do the right thing, your stock grows.

1:20:18
And that's what she learned,

1:20:20
and she brought that into the world of technology. And she was smart, and she was successful. And then she brought that into, you know, helping animals and then makeup, helping women with makeup and then coming back into farming. So she was coming from a place of truth, doing the right thing. What we learn in Buddhism is a truth. We might all come from all sorts of weird backgrounds. Maybe we weren't born on a farm. Maybe we don't know the cycles of nature and the way of reciprocity of farming. That makes very simple sense. But when we learn Buddhism, we learn the truth. We learn the truth, and in knowing the truth, we're able to do anything that we want in the world. We can make makeup, we can make cysticism. But it is a way that when we come from the cycle, the awareness of truth, we'll be very successful. So Parvati's teaching was an example of success coming from what we learn in Buddhism. Very deep truths, simple structures of truth. And then Sandy Lerner, she followed a truth. She's like, I learned something in farming and I brought that truth to my whole career. And there's truth there. Not ego, not an idea, not a whole bunch of like things you learn that are conceptual. It came from her experience in farming. And that's why we have to meditate and be mindful. If we come from those places, then our work will be yielding enlightened success. All right, we're going to do a one-song meditation, focused on the third eye. Look up here towards me. This is the transmission of enlightened success. Sit up nice and straight. One song, let's begin.

1:23:04
you so the the the the the the the the the the the the the You're not alone. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. you So so ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ Thank you so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
