0:00:00
All right, welcome. We are going to begin with meditation. We will sit for one song, but we'll focus on the third eye. Sit up nice and straight.

0:00:15
And let's begin. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So so you Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So, you All right, so today we are going on a vision quest. A vision quest is a kind of seeing. It's a thing that we do in Buddhist

0:05:24
mysticism. So vision, you have some spiritual vision, a journey of transformation to get to that vision. So this is our vision quest. In our vision quest, you're going to follow me on a journey. You're going to follow me on a journey of understanding the Dharma and then have this vision. So the vision quest is a spiritual seeing and doing something to get there. There was this blind guy who wanted to really learn Jesus' teachings. So he sought out a Bible. went on a quest for the holy bread. It's a quest. So now the thing that we're going to be questing for, the vision we seek to find, is the vision So, a lot of times when we think of vision quests, we think of going somewhere, maybe with a Native American shaman, and just sitting out in the forest, and then having some spirit animal appear, and then you go, wow, I recognize something, I see something, oh, I found this sign of inner peace or something like that. Could be, you know, could also be, some people have very spaced out stories about their vision quest. But enlightenment is also very, very, very practical. It's very, very useful. It's helpful and reliable. So we're going to go through a journey to understanding practical enlightenment. Now, I remember I had a student, she was not from she asked me, what is the use of enlightenment? And I said what I usually say, which is, enlightenment makes you happy. And enlightenment frees you from suffering. And then she said, what is it with all you Americans and this happiness thing? She's like, I don't value happiness, I think that's silly. And I was like, oh. And then she's like, and I think suffering builds character. And I was like, oh. So then I started going on, and I'm like, you know, you have this connection to your eternal side. Well, why do I need that? I'm perfectly fine right now. I don't need to know more." So I started to come up with these things, and she just didn't value anything. All of these things, like spiritual oneness with the universe, a still, clear, perfect mind, and all things like that. She was like, nah, that's useless. And I said, well, you know, enlightenment is also quite practical. Now, she was a student, you know, she was going for an MBA or something like that. And so I said, well, enlightenment helps you learn. And she said, really? I said, yes, like when you have a clear, still mind, you can perceive and process information without any filters, without any confusion, and you can know more and learn faster. And she said, sounds interesting. I told her about Padmasambhava. Padmasambhava, the self-born Buddha. He was so enlightened, that's what he called himself, the self-born Buddha, because he was so enlightened, he just appeared in the middle of a lake in a giant luminous lotus. He just appeared one day as a 10-year-old boy. And he like walked across the water to the town and everyone's like, wow, that's amazing. And he's like, I'm Padmasambhava, the self-born Buddha. And they were like, amazing. And then he started talking this high spiritual talk and the galactic oneness, just like these really high things. They were all very, very, very true, very high, but the people were like, I don't know what he's talking about. This is just high talk. This is just babbling about stuff. It just doesn't have to do anything with our lives. So then they just kind of walked away. And he was like, hey, what's going on? So then he goes over to people and he starts telling them the high Dharma. And they're like, what? And he's like, yes, we're the same. And they're all like, really? Because we look different. You know, things like that. And then he got rejected by the people because even though he was speaking of a very high Dharma and giving beautiful teachings, he didn't make any sense to them. They couldn't understand. So then he said, oh, you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to learn what they know so I can everything. He learned basket weaving, tinsmithing, he learned cooking, he learned every skill that was in the village that he was by. He learned every skill, but he learned it extremely well and perfectly. So then he would walk over to like the blacksmith, for example, the blacksmith would be making, you know, a horseshoe for a yak or something. And then he would go, you know, and he would give the blacksmith some insight about the work that he's doing, about how to do his work better. And then the blacksmith would learn something and go, oh, wow. But then he would also marry that with the teachings of the Dharma, some wisdom. So it was a way where since he could learn all of the things that the people were doing, he had a way to talk to them. There was a reason to have a dialogue. And then he was able to talk about the things that were in their interests, their work, and he was also able to share the Dharma with them. Then he became quite a popular teacher. But before that, when he was just talking about all this high-minded spiritual mumbo-jumbo, people just walked away. They got there and like, this is too much. So you can learn. And when you meditate, your mind becomes still, your awareness becomes clear. And even meditating, if you have a meditation practice, more and more your mind becomes clearer and clearer and you can learn. You can learn things that you never thought you would learn before. And you can learn things that you want to learn, just in a clearer way, because you're directly dealing with the mind. who was in some advanced degree program. She said, okay, that sounds pretty useful. What else? What other things are practical about enlightenment? And I said, well, in enlightenment, it's not just enlightenment, but a lot of enlightened people, able to learn these powers, these cities, and these are enlightened expressions. And for example, there's this one Lama called the Karma Lama, or sometimes they call him the power to heal. And many of my students have met him and have had healings done by him. So he was just a regular monk in Bhutan. And then he really wanted to do more. So he went to his Rinpoche, like his priest, and he said, I want to do more. I really, really, really want to do serious study. So then his Rinpoche said, OK, I'm going to send you to a cave for a nine-year retreat and I'm going to give you one mantra and you just say that mantra over and over. That's your practice, that mantra, nine years in a cave all alone. So he said, Yeah, I'm gonna do it. So he went to the cave and spent nine years just sitting there saying a mantra over and over, over and over. The monks from the monastery would bring him some food and water and he would pick it up at a certain time. But he just sat there for nine years practicing. And he didn't really notice a lot of anything happen. It was just that his life was the cave and the mantra. And then after, nine years was up, and he started heading back to the ashram. And he had a little rock that he found in the cave that he liked. And so he just kind of like hold the rock, play with the rock while he's doing the mantra. Anyway, he took the rock back with him to remember the cave. And while he was walking, getting close to the ashram, a monk that he knew 10 years ago comes over and says, Hey, wow, you finished your retreat. Good to see you. And so they're walking and talking. And then he says, hey, what's that little rock you're holding? He's like, oh, this is my favorite rock from the cave. And the monk says, can I see it? He says, sure. He hands it to him. When he hands it to him, the guy goes, ouch. He's like, oh my gosh, it's so hot. It's like red hot. And he was like, oh, that's weird. And then that's where he started to realize that he had gotten this power. It's called the tummo. It's the inner heat. And with the inner heat, he can make his hands really hot, or he can make things hot. And the Karma Lama, he could also like pick, he could have, he could touch things that are hot or he could project heat and he could like take a bucket of water and make it boil by just projecting this inner heat. So he got this power called the inner heat. But then his heat had healing properties or had healing energy. And so what he would do is he would heal people with that heat. The way he would do that is he would take this little metal, you know, little small metal rod, and he would put it under his tongue and say a mantra. And then it would come out like red hot. And then whatever illness you have, he would just like kind of like an acupuncturist hit some acupuncture points with that heat and then it would miraculously heal you. So that is a power, an enlightened expression, a city of healing, and that's a practical thing. There's lots of different Buddhist powers or spiritual powers, enlightened powers, and they're practical. Like another one is Shri Krishna of ancient India, and there's a famous story where there's a terribly, terribly huge flood that's coming down, and it would wipe out his village. And then he uses his enlightenment powers, and he levitates his village. He levitates the village up, the flood goes by, and then he brings it back. So I have to say, that's a useful thing. Yeah. of a Zen, a Zen, Afro-Zen monastery in China, and a fire breaks out. And the fire, and they're in the woods, they're in the forest, and there's fire coming everywhere. And then the Zen master had powers of, you know, kind of commanding the winds. So he would push the winds so that the fire wouldn't get to the ashram. And so everything around him got burned, but the ashram stayed. And so the cities, these powers that one can attain when enlightened. These are practical things that are useful. Also I think one of the most amazing things about enlightenment is that you gain the And whether it's an angry person, you know, dealing with an angry person, you're able to deal with them without getting angry, without going to that level that they're in. You're able to deal with them in a way of dharma, in a positive way. But it could even be something very, very, very difficult. One famous story is the story of Buddha. There were some people who really didn't like Buddha. They had different religions and they saw that he was becoming very popular and some people from their religion joined Buddha and then they were like, oh, we've got to kill this guy. So they got this elephant one day and they got the elephant drunk. And then, and the drunk got the elephant drunk and all crazy and all aggravated. And then, and then Buddha was walking down the street. Now, okay, great. Yeah, we're just going to go get his food. Let's unleash this elephant. So they hit the elephant and the elephant's running at Buddha, and Buddha projects this energy of compassion, enlightened energy to the elephant. And the elephant's all enraged and drunk and confused, and is just going to go stomping through and run over anyone. But then Buddha does this, and then the elephant becomes peaceful and happy. So that's a really good outcome. It was a very, you know, a very powerful thing, and it was enraged and bothered, and it was just gonna run him over, but because Buddha could solve problems in an enlightened way, he solved the problem with the angry elephant. I think one of the very practical things about enlightenment is that it adapts to whatever situation it needs to. Enlightenment is not, you know, some guy sitting on top of a mountain, you know, or in a cave, or in a certain ashram, and wearing a robe with a bald head, or a turban, or a beard, or whatever, you know, like we have all these ideas of that's enlightenment. But enlightenment is that if you're enlightened, you can make that enlightenment useful for the real life situations that you have, for

0:23:28
your world.

0:23:29
And an example that I like is Bodhidharma was the 27th lineage holder of Buddhism after Buddha and he was in, he had gone to China and he was in a retreat for, he was nine years, and then he came back to the temple. And the Shaolin Temple. The monks had a lot of trouble. There were wars going on and whenever the army needed some more supplies, they would just raid the temple. And then there were lots of thieves that would come and raid the temple. And so these poor monks would go hungry and have a difficult time. So Bodhidharma came to them and then he said, I'm going to teach you enlightenment through Kung Fu. So he taught, he was the originator of Zen Buddhism, but he's also the originator of the Shaolin Kung Fu. So he taught Zen and he taught Shaolin. And the monks were doing these punches and kicks and all this stuff. They were learning martial arts and they became very powerful in martial arts. So that when the bad guys came to raid Shaolin Temple, there were all these Shaolin monks who were like skilled in fighting. So that was something that was important. It was overcoming adversity and obstacles, but it was teaching people how to be successful in the world that they lived in, which was a world of a lot of trouble and violence. And now we look at the Shaolin and we say, wow, that's really cool. At the time, I think it was pretty radical. Buddhists never fought and then all of a sudden there's these Shaolin monks. And I'd also direct you to what we do in our school. So we do job yoga and we do yoga. So because the majority of my students work in a full-time job, we have this practice that is adapting to the realities of the world that we live in this modern age. And it is doing yoga. And yoga means that you make, you know, job yoga, you make your job into your spiritual practice There are observances mindful attention meditation and overall a focus of impeccability and selflessness in your work, it is spiritual practice. And it's a powerful way to be practical with enlightenment in your work. So, I've had students who went from not having any career, who followed this practice of job yoga, and then they became extremely successful computer programmers or project managers. And they did things that they didn't think they'd ever do, didn't even think they wanted to do. But by making it their expression of enlightenment, they found it to be very practical, useful, and spiritually enlightening in their lives, in the conditions of the age that we're in. And ultimately, the practical thing about enlightenment is that it brings enlightened success. Now, in a spiritual way, I would say, enlightened is transcending the self and connecting to your eternal side, where you enter a condition of peace, of balance, spiritual balance, where you're free from suffering and you're happy. I call that enlightened success. But enlightened success also expresses itself. You know, it manifests in the physical as well. It manifests as things work out well for you. So I like to point out one of our yoga companies, AppBuddy. AppBuddy was a successful Silicon Valley software company and it was a yoga project. It was a yoga company. It was a whole bunch of meditation students learning yoga, practicing spirituality in a company. They were very successful. They made very strong sales. They had a very strong acquisition. And this is an example of showing that there's success when you have yoga. You have success when you have an enlightened attention. You have success in your life. So you can have that spiritual success, which is that inner success, but enlightenment is also, you'll see an outer success. You'll see that it is not just some high lofty concept that you have in your mind, but it has a balance. There's a very, very physical balance with the real world as well. So enlightened success, a practical outcome of enlightenment. So I told this to my student, and she was like, all right, I'm totally in. Because you know, all these spiritual books that say all these high things and stuff, it's like with Padmasambhava and the people. somewhere above your experience. And when you can come to that balance of understanding where your experience is, with all that high talk, it comes to a certain place where it becomes a reality. It makes sense. And then it's practical, in light of me. So, we are going to do a seeing exercise. This is the vision quest. And I want you to reflect on your life, the difficulties in your life, and what would be practical in your life. So you could say, wow, you know, I'd like to establish a career. I'm suffering that way. Or, you might say, I'm suffering with trouble from people. Like Buddha with the elephant, I want to do something that way. Look at the things where and think about not the solution, but just think about I'm having trouble here. Maybe it's a relationship, maybe it's your finances, maybe it's dealing with difficult people. know what your practical world deficiency is. And then we're going to do the vision quest, the seeing. And the seeing shows you something very, very powerful and practical to make your life more enlightened and more successful in the physical. That's what practical enlightenment is. So what I'd like to do, now that you've had a moment to bring those things up, it could be more than one thing. You're like, oh man, it's more than one thing. We're going to bring the focus to the third eye. We're going to close our eyes, and we're going to intend to see. Intend to see the direction. Intend to see the solution. Intend to see the way of enlightened success in your life, in your career, in your relationships, and always in your health, exercise, and always you intend to see the way, what you should do, what you should be, what you should become, what should happen, how you should be graced by the universe. Intend to see. This is the vision quest. So we will sit and have no expectations. Don't expect to see images or a movie playing or even have any ideas or even that your thoughts are going to stop. Just say, I want to see, I want to see, I need to see, I need to see, and this intention to see your inviting success. So we'll sit for one song.

0:35:29
Sit up nice and straight.

0:35:30
And let's begin. the

0:35:38
the the Thank you. the the the the Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the the the the the the the the the the the the the

0:38:22
So what did you see a kind of light and it's abstract. Sometimes you have a feeling, something in your heart or in your navel or powerful seeing practices. There's many ways that the seeing, the power, this dimension opens. There's lots of ways. And there's also the I didn't see anything, you had no, any awareness of anything seeing at all. You were just sitting there listening to music. Even if that's the case, you have to accept in your heart that some part of you had a seeing. Some part of you had this vision quest, and that you had a vision and then it unfolds in your life. So whatever your awareness, you have to accept that you have had this seeing. And this seeing, it's definitely beyond a mental process. It's beyond some ideas and thoughts and feelings. The seeing is deeper. We say that it's in the second attention. It's something that you can't even describe. You can't describe the essence of the seeing. But the seeing shows you something, shows you a way. And that way becomes the way of your life. To sit in a vision quest, to see that deep, magical, perfect, spiritual direction of Dharma unfolding, showing you how to go in the right way to become more enlightened, but also more practical. Enlightened success, it shows you the way. And then you find yourself doing things, directing yourself towards meditation, yoga, and because of that seeing, you're able to apprehend more truth, know what to do better, become more successful. So this is a good vision quest. Thank you. All right, now we're going to take a five minute break. No, ten minute break. I know how you guys like to spend time cleaning. So we're going to take a ten minute break, and meet the showdowns. Portent! Portent! Okay, thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
