0:00:00
All right, hello.

0:00:06
We're going to begin with meditation. This will be a focus on the navel chakra. So sit up nice and straight and let's begin.

0:00:17
the the the So so so So the the the the so so so Wonderful. All right, so today it's Solstice, part two, the revenge. And our subject today is overcoming bad karma in yoga. This is very important. I saw that many of you said, I want to succeed in yoga. Good for you. That is a proper seeing. That's very, very strong. Now I noticed that some of the advanced students were just like, Oh, I just want kind of like enlightened.

0:02:42
And like, where's your yoga, like where's your foundation? Right? It's like, if you're my kung fu system, yeah, I just want to like kind of do frilly stuff and not do horse. I'm looking at Shakti, who's been in my kung fu system since we were kids. So, no, you have to, you have to have the basics. If you say, I want enlightenment, but I don't actually want to meditate. I just want to be enlightened. I want enlightenment, but I don't want to have to do yoga because that's just too hard. Then you're missing the basics. So, I would say to some of the advanced students, I mean like so many of the beginning and intermediate students were saying yeah, yoga success, dreaming of yoga success. Advanced students, what happened. Did you lose the plot? Because the plot of the story is yoga. I've been saying that since the first time we started yoga. I said, now there's a plot. It's called yoga. Even though it was a Muppet show. So, you know, I'm surrounded by Muppets, I might as well start there. Yeah, so this is very important. Yoga. So, those of you who included yoga success in your dream, I think that you're on the right path of the Dharma. Those of you who said, no, no, no, I don't want to do yoga, I think you're confused. You're confucious. So, hmm, when we are doing yoga, it's a beautiful expression of enlightenment. And it's an expression of enlightenment that brings everyone that we bring our sphere of yoga to, it brings them light. It's beautiful. It's a most wonderful practice. An expression of enlightenment. You know, they, they, there's people who have good intentions, and then all of a sudden they become corrupt right? That's not the way of yoga. I watched that in my yoga. I watched that in Apati. Everything difficult comes up and become more enlightened. So there was this social freedom fighter in South Africa during apartheid. But he had this saying, he said, so the European missionaries came here, and we closed our eyes, we prayed, we opened our eyes, they owned the land, and we owned the Bible. I got a book. So that's poor yoga. Even though they're spiritual and they wanted to bring across something, you know, that they thought was good, but they brought across what they think is good. Right? So yoga is not a beat down. Yoga opens everything up for everyone involved. If you can come to a yoga, like a true yoga, people, the yogis who are doing the work are filled with light. They are the energy of eternity of karmic yoga burning off anything that they have or anybody else they're facing has. They're burning off. That's what a yogi is. If you're in a yoga, you are a star. You're strong, you're powerful, you're bright. And then anyone that you come to, you bring light to them. You know, if we didn't have our star, we wouldn't have life. So a So, a yogi, every true yogi is a star. And a star burns off all the karmas. A star illuminates everything. A star gives life to everything around them. Just like our sun. So, yoga. So, those of you who, you know, I've read many of the dreams, maybe 80%. I'm still going to work through it because send me your dreams if you want, I'll read them. I'm very fascinated by them. I'm very uplifted by hearing your dreams. I'm very encouraged. I'm all, oh maybe I should continue to teach these people. Because usually I'm all...

0:11:47
Just kidding.

0:11:48
But what people normally do in religion is the Spanish Inquisition. What? I didn't expect that. Right? It's like they take something spiritual and then they ego it and then they beat the crap out of you. But in yoga you can beat the crap out of yourself. Until there's no self. I mean for a while there is a struggle but eventually something gives and that's the self. The self gives and then there's a flow of enlightened energy. Be a yogi. Come on this is a school of yogis. Don't give up on that. There's such a powerful And even our Hans say, oh, yoga. And I'm like, me too. That's what I'm doing here right now. Right? No, it's not easy. It's all performance. It's all impeccability. It's all right now in this moment where you are. I'm right here and over there. I'm right here. Oh my gosh, I gotta have a sense of humor. I'm right here.

0:13:09
Oh my gosh, gotta have a sense of humor. Cracks you up. So, bad karma. So we're karma yogis.

0:13:25
You should be master karma yogis. Shodans. But if you're a master karma yogi who's like, I don't really want to do karma yoga. What school did you grow up in? Like, I got my black belt, but I don't feel like doing kata anymore. I don't know, or I don't feel like doing kumite, because I'm not so good. I would say kumite. It's like, I got my black belt, but now I feel sensitive. So I don't want to like have to fight these brown belts because they're they're young bloods who are pushing trying to get up. No, you should be a master. You should be such a master where you're like, I'll fight every brown belt, bodon, and first degree black belt and just be all, but that's it. And if I want to put you down. Right? Because that's what mastery is. So if you're like, I don't want to do yoga because boom, boom,

0:14:31
boom, boom, boom.

0:14:32
I'm like, well, then you're a weak first degree black belt. It happens. There's many weak first degree black belts. We've seen it. All black belts from every black belt school have seen someone got a black belt, and then they quit. And I'm like, you'll get your ass kicked in a street fight. Got a black belt, cool idea. But you're not a martial artist. So you'll get your ass kicked in a street fight. And believe me, because I've seen it happen. I've seen black adults get their ass kicked in a street fight. Because I've been in a lot of street fights. And I checked with them. They're like, I'm so good at like Aikido. Then, like, wow.

0:15:26
You're really good.

0:15:29
So Aikido black belts. It's like Jiu Jitsu. So, let's really be real about yoga. Yoga is very powerful. And if you're, especially if you're a Bodon or Shonan, you should be really lifting up your practice and showing it and demonstrating it. I mean, in a karate dojo, people don't just say, yeah, you know, actually this is very American. Yeah, I'm a 10th degree black belt, but I don't do anything. I just tell people stuff. You have to get on the floor and show it. You have to get on the mat and win it. You have to be real. That's what martial arts is. You can't just be like some martial arts master who shows up once in a while and says, your Tai Chi sucks. Oh, I do that. But I also demonstrate the true Tai Chi, right? Like I also show you the right way. So I get on the mat. So there has to be, you know, corrections, there has to be demonstrations, but if you're a yogi, be a yogi! Stand up and be a yogi. This is a school of yogis. If this is my school of martial arts and my black belts are like, yeah, I kind of don't feel like I'm doing kata or training, I'm like, what are you doing here? There's a big exit door. You know, you know, the door to Zen? Fucking everywhere. Like, where's the door to Zen? And the Zen master's all, it's everywhere. You know where, get the fuck out? It's everywhere. Just from my heart. So you know this is what we have to kind of get to. Now bad karma occurs in yoga and guess where it comes from you. Where does the bad karma start in our highly evolved teachings of enlightenment? I mean you could have a bad reaction going into Karate Dojo. You're like, I don't like you. I don't like the sensei. He's mean. I don't, it's too hard. Ouch, someone blocked my punch. It's like, you can have a weak reaction, you can have a bad reaction. It will cut you off from being a martial artist. It will cut you off from power. If that's what you want. I mean, if that's what you've settled for. If that's what you've settled for. If you settle for, it's too hard, it's too mean, it hurts me. Well then, look at the people who are strong. And if you say, it hurts me, so I can't be that, then give up. Go and be a victim. Don't have power. If that's what you want, but if you see power, if you see that that martial artist is strong, if you see that, you know, that yoga teacher has power. Don't fight them. Listen to them. Follow them. Get up to at least their level. Don't argue with them. Learn from them. Get up to at least So, bad karma starts with you in your head. And even arhants, even enlightened ones, they're always dealing with bad karma. Like I surf waves of bad karma, but I surf it. I got a board, I'm on it. Like there's bad karma everywhere. Everything's bad karma. There's good karma too. But everything sucks. It's true. There's no escape. Everything's terrible. Only, you know, like there could be a tsunami that's going to hit here, like I see the ocean, there could be a tsunami. And that's destruction. That's horribly bad. But if I'm a good surfer, I want to put my board there and go, let's go and see what happens.

0:21:05
Right?

0:21:06
If you're a good surfer. So being enlightened is being a good surfer. It means that, you know, global warming is happening. Yeah, okay, and is anything gonna get better? Probably not. You know, are we gonna get like a tidal wave?

0:21:23
Probably, whatever, you know, I mean, a tsunami.

0:21:26
Okay, so we're gonna hit all this crazy stuff, right? It's all gonna happen, and we're gonna say, okay, well, deal with it. With mastery. What do we train for?

0:21:42
Mastery.

0:21:43
We don't train for mediocrity. Because if you want to train for mediocrity, please go to like some mindfulness class. And be like, I will try to be mindful about my thoughts.

0:21:58
Sorry.

0:21:59
Sorry, that was too close to reality. It was too close to reality for humor. Sorry. I'm going to calm and mind space myself or something. And then get bored. Bored to death in five minutes. That's the problem with their, I mean, they're meeting in something that people need, a common headspace. But they bore people to death. It's like I could bring everybody in the universe to an opera, Wagner, and they will all, Americans, will all fall I'll fall asleep and die. I can say it's a very high culture, it's really wonderful, it's been this pillar of Western civilian efficacy until I brought you. it became a place of let's take a nap. Because you can't take it. We don't have the like, you know, the ability to think so far out. You're like, oh my gosh, if it's not happening in 30 seconds, where is this song going? You're like, I need some Keisha. I don't know, something like that. Yeah, so I just want to reel it back. So, yogis need to be strong and you need to lead. You need to focus. We have so many very strong shodons and very strong bodons who need to become leaders and not just shrink away. You can't shrink away in a dojo structure. It's like, I just want to go into a cave. I'm like, is that what you ever learned in this school that actually helped you? That got you to go up that high? Now you want to go into a cave? Like, no. And did you ever see your teachers do that? No. Mandala, Sananda, me. And then you guys get to see Agni Kala and Shiva. These people don't run away into a cave. They come out of the closet. Can I say that? I'm from San Francisco. I mean, I don't know. This is a moment of conjecture. So they come out and they focus and they do their best for everyone. So we have to do that for each other. We have to do the best for each other. small community of enlightened-minded beings. We have wonderful, amazing, magical people in our group and some of the most wonderful beings on the planet that I've ever met. So let's do the best for each other and let's work for each other. So, we have to learn how to get out of the bad karma in yoga because you have to extricate

0:26:24
yourself from that. It's so easy to get into bad karma.

0:26:30
Karma is all connected to all sorts of self-reactions. And that's all garbage. If you ever find yourself interfacing with a Sangha member in anything, in any yoga, and you're having a self-reaction, just give it up. Stop it. That would be overcoming

0:27:20
karma.

0:27:23
Because you create karmas by having thoughts and reactions but you shouldn't do that to each other. You should be supportive of each other. You should be 100% supportive of each other. I'm 100% supportive of you. Do you guys realize that? I am. I might like, you know, point something out, but everything that I do, I might point out a person I used to, say,

0:28:04
EWWWWW! EWWWWW! Your hair's all messed up!

0:28:09
Your hair's all messed up! I'm like, I don't even have hair! Anyway, so, um, but no, like, I might point things out, but I'm not pointing it out because I don't like you. I'm pointing it out so that you can see it and release it. So that's the thing. The

0:28:36
state of mind that come, states of mind that come from

0:28:41
bad karma, it pulls you down. But you can release that. You can be free of that. You don't have to be stuck in karma. When we're doing karma yoga, karma yoga blasts it away. The bad karmas end yoga. If you come over to karma yoga, you're like, yeah I want to do some karma yoga, except for I want this, I'm angry about that, I want this, I'm pissed off about that, and I think things should be the way it used to be in Yugoslavia. And then you're like, whoa, let's just uh give up there.

0:29:38
Yeah.

0:29:39
So there's a way, so any karma that we're stuck in, any karma, let me get a shout out. Every karma here must be in a place where we're working through some karma, right? But let me tell you, there is a way through every karma, absolutely, where you're like, I'm going to do every karma, absolutely. Where you're like, I'm not making the sales I want to make. I'm not getting the job I want to get.

0:30:10
I'm not.

0:30:11
Something's not happening right. You know why? Karma. If you're all Steve Jobs and you had his karma. Everything would work. You're silly little karma. I mean, your little projects, all those karmas would be blasted because that guy knows so much more. He just, he has a higher awareness. He's built, he's gone through so many of those karmas where he's figuring it all out. So it's like a 10th degree black belt. You might be a black belt, but that guy's been through so many more lifetimes to be able to be that strong, right? Like you can't just be that right away. Oh, I got a black belt in my life so I can beat a 10th degree black belt. No, it's not gonna happen. Someone who's a really high degree black belt, they are a master for many lives and you can get a black belt. I guarantee everyone can get a black belt, but are you gonna beat a master? No. Are you gonna beat Steve Jobs? I wish you all said yes, but no, none of us are going to beat Steve Jobs. That guy's a 10th-degree black belt in business. Right? So, we just have to accept that that's the case of sh** things. The case of sh** things. Yeah, so. Really cool towel. So there's a very important thing that we can do that transcends us being a first-degree black belt or 10th-degree black belt or white belt or 10th-degree black belt, and that's coming to spirit. And spirit is something that you can see if you're a white belt or a 10th degree black belt. And I would like to talk about, you know, Yana sensei, our old, dear, great master. He taught us this thing called E-U, where if you push someone and say E, it's high energy that comes up, and you can't push anybody over. It's strong. It's hard as you try, even if you're a big strong person, going to a little weak person. Yeah, you might be able to push them over, but it's all physical. And then you go, ooh, and then they just fall over. Or if there's a little person pushing a big person, they go, oh what's happening to me? I'm bigger than you, I can't believe it. So there's a power that's greater than the self and we need to use that power in our yoga. Now there's a way to correct bad karma. Everyone has bad karma. Everyone! Why are we here? Some bad karma. We should be somewhere else. Like in Hawaii. Oh, wait a second. Okay, no. Hawaii is still on this planet. So, there's a way, a higher way of dealing with energies of the mind and the karma. Karmas that you are in. Our, our hunts should be the greatest karma yogis. They should be showing the way. They should be showing not only that they can do really high spiritual states of mind, but they should be showing how can I tell someone to get a higher paying job or do better in their yoga? Like, that's what our heart should do. That's I think Allah came over and he's like, I'll do. And he has so much like mystical power. And I said, after a while, I was like, that's nice. It's good. I mean, you're, you know, you're really strong, but apply that get my students get my new students jobs or or jump in and be a yoga leader and he's all well I don't want to do that because that's hard it's a commitment a yogi has to make a commitment but here's the thing if you're committed you're going to find the places where you're stuck you're going to find your karmas if you don't even a liberated person can only do so much and get stuck, but then there's a way through. Everybody from the white belt to the fifth degree or eighth degree or tenth degree black belt will find a place where they get stuck and they have to work through it. So I'm going to share with you a very magical, mystical, Taoist teaching. It's called, I'm not going to tell you what it's called because that's a secret, but I'll show you what it is. Okay. So, bring your hands up like this. I want you to do precisely what I say. It's super magical. It shows you the way beyond the... Like, you think that the physical world is a certain way. It's not. And it's going to show you something way beyond what you think. Okay, it's over. Just kidding. All right, so now I want you to notice at the very bottom of your palms, if you go like this a little bit up, look at you. And then you'll see when you bend your palm that at the very bottom of the palm there's a line. See that line? Right? It's at the very bottom, because there could be two or three or four or five or six lines, but you see the first line that is a very very very important acupuncture point. So it's called the root of being in in Daoism. Okay now super important do it exactly perfectly You're going to take that bottom line, the first bottom line under the palm, and you're going to match them up perfectly. You can start it like this so that they come totally together, that you can see that they are perfectly together, right? Okay, and then bring it like this. Yeah, so you see that those lines completely align. And now, put your fingertips together.

0:37:15
And here's what you'll notice.

0:37:16
90% of people notice that one hand is about half a centimeter taller than the other, right? So take a look at that. Look at that difference. It's very important that you see that difference. It's very important that you see that difference. Okay.

0:37:41
Okay, now, the hand that is shorter,

0:37:45
leave that one up, look the other one down. Okay. Now raise that hand a little bit. And I want you to feel like your fingertips

0:37:52
are reaching for the ceiling.

0:37:54
And I want you to feel like your fingertips

0:37:57
are reaching for the ceiling. And now I'm gonna tell your fingertips, I'm gonna tell your fingers, grow longer. I'm gonna tell your fingers, grow longer. Look at your fingers, I want them to grow longer. Do they look like they're growing longer? Grow longer, grow longer, okay? Now, I want you to come back to that same line and match it up perfectly. And now I want you to put your fingertips together. Do you see how weird that is? Yeah, so I will say that 10% of people somehow it all works out and it means that they have

0:38:47
something figured out.

0:38:49
But most people, 90% of people will go like this and then they'll end up like this. It'll start like that and then it'll end up like that. And you know what this means? It means that you can change your physical life with your mind. And 10% of you who didn't get it, you should ask somebody. Because the people who go like, they start like this and then they end up like this. They're like, oh my goodness, how did that happen? Magically, by seeing where you're at, starting from that root, putting it together, using attention to fix it, putting it back together from the bottom up. And that's what we do in yoga. You can do this again on your own, by yourself.

0:39:47
Just go through those steps

0:39:50
and it will show you again something. But it's a very, very strong thing because when you just go like this and it's wrong or it's off and then you go longer, longer, longer and then you put it together and say, oh my goodness, it came straight. Then what you've done is you use your mind and you use energy, the energy of awareness to actually not do something in the physical. You did something in the physical. You did something in the mind to make something work. You didn't actually grow your fingers longer, even though you said to yourself, fingers grow longer. But it all came together because you used your mind properly. Now, if you're in sales, you're like, we're not making sales. You could go like this and then go sales, sales, sales, sales, sales, sales, sales, and then you'll go like this and sales happen. I can't get a job. Job, job, job, job. I'm not kidding. This is what we do. We use our mind and our intention to make things happen. Where there's no sales, where there's not a business model, where there's not a job, where you can't get a promotion. Everything can happen. Everything can happen in business. Everything can happen in yoga if you apply your mind properly. I just think it's so funny. You're like, all of a sudden you're all, but it's so important to see a little physical experiment of the mind. And if you apply yourself in It happens, it's magical.

0:41:59
It happens. That's what App Buddy did.

0:42:02
They were all like, I don't know what to do. They tried everything that you can think of and they shifted their attention and their mind and their energy. It was in the awareness. They didn't make sales out of self. They made sales out of shifting out of self, out of having a bigger idea, out of having a greater awareness. That's how they made sales. That's how they got the company acquired. So it doesn't happen from self. Yoga doesn't happen from self. It happens from shifting and seeing a higher, bigger picture. Okay, so it's very important to understand, but you gotta see the things that you have to see. That's why we did this little exercise, where I'll measure those two things up, put them together, go like this. Oh, still, yeah, I'm still together. So you shift yourself. You shift your energy that shifts your physicality. It's not that the hands were different. It's just that once I shifted attention and energy, then they became aligned. And if you have alignment and you do sales, then guess what happens? Boom.

0:43:18
But if you don't have alignment,

0:43:20
if you just go in your karma, you don't shift your attention, then you don't have a sale. You don't have a job. Yeah. So what you have to see when we do this exercise, this little physical exercise is what am I doing? I'm seeing that something's off and then I'm doing something that aligns it. I'm doing some energy that aligns it and then the subtle physical and the physical. But we do this in our work. This is what we do in yoga. Is it time to take a break. I want to say that you have to see that. You have to see that there's some something wrong and you have to see that there's some energy to use to make things right. And I want to talk about what's wrong. What's wrong? What creates bad karma in yoga? There are factors. And they're the easiest factors in the world because it just comes out of you like crap. Wow, is that my yoga? Yeah, it's true, it just comes out of you, like it's just natural, apparently. But here's what happens. It just seems to be quite natural for people. Like, there's the toilet, go to your attachment, your anger, your desire, and your fear. It's over there. I wish we had little outhouses for that. So that we wouldn't have to do it in our yoga. So, no, it's true. This is, these are things that just actually normally come through. I would love to see the hands of yogis who say, I don't act in my work, in my yoga, in my life from attachment. I don't act from desire. I don't act from fear. I don't act from anger. If you can be a yogi free of any one of those things, you are a good yogi. All of those things, master yogi. And you should be a master yogi in this school. You should be able to go into a yoga, any yoga, and say I'm not going to be angry. I'm not going to have a persistent desire to get it a certain way. I'm not going to be attached to an idea. I'm not going to be afraid of you. And then if you can do that, you can work with anybody in unity. And then you're out of karma in karma yoga. That means that you've burned through enough where you're like, I can come and bring my best to you. I can help you in karma yoga and I am a karma yogi. I'm free of all those things that would create bad karma that would mess you up and mess me up. That's a master yogi. So when you can get through the bad karmas and you can do yoga, you're a master yogi. You might not be impeccable or effective, but selflessly, that's the most important thing. If you can deal with all that stuff, you won't have any bad reactions that drag your yoga down. And then anything that you add only brings it up. You're like, well, I'm totally unimpeccable, but at least I have no bad energy. And bad energy is what 99% of the time brings the yoga down. It's those bad karmas. All right, we're gonna take a break. Because I was talking. Uh, I don't know, maybe we shouldn't take a break. You guys want a break? Yeah. Okay. 10 minute break. We come back and then we'll finish. I don't want to go too long, but I can.

0:48:06
All right, hello everyone.

0:48:08
It's just gonna be a short time together because I can keep going, but I want to get to the most important thing. And this is the bringing our awareness into what the karmas are and what the transmission is that brings us through it. So these karmas are things that happen in our yoga all the time that we want to observe on ourselves and let go. We want to overcome these karmas. We want to see places where we're attached to ideas, like it should be this way, where you have a desire, I want to somehow get into a position or I want it to be my way. I'm kind of hubris or something like that, right? We want to find out where we have angers. I don't like what that person says. They're wrong.

0:49:09
Give that up.

0:49:11
We want to find the place of where we have our fears. That person's intense and it's hard to deal with them. These are the primary places that take yoga and break yoga. It makes yoga separated. Yoga means union, right? So if we're working together and we can't have unity. There's no yoga, it's just self. So we have to find the place where when we work together it all comes together. And if we're a spiritual group and we can't do that then we're idiots and failures. Right? And so I want you to take that into your heart because of attachment, desire, anger, and fear in the Sangha. If that's happening in you towards somebody because you're trying to figure something out, you need to chill out. You need to overcome the bad karma in you. They might be completely wrong, but you don't have to be right. You have to be chill. You have to be beyond karma. If you're beyond karma then you're good. And then you can help them. But if you're in karma and they're in karma then everyone's a mess. So I'd like to do one last transmission today just one song this is a transmission teaching it is the way out of bad karma in yoga and believe me I know it I am it so I'm just going to be expressing that energy for you guys. All right so let's look at me, third eye, and still your mind, and one song, meditation. Let's begin.

0:51:38
So so so so You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero Wonderful, everyone. So beautiful. So, yesterday, after Soltis' teaching, I was able to meet

0:55:25
with the Shodons who were working on the reform of our Sangha organization. I loved it because, I don't know, for a couple weeks I was talking to lots of showdowns and I was like, we need to re-org ourselves. Things have changed. We need to do something different. And they came together and they figured out a way forward. It was very strong. Now here's a big thing. I didn't have to be a part of it. I don't have to lead my organization. I want my organization to lead because you guys are so strong. So many great yogis who've done amazing things. You know, wonderful, amazing people who can do, I mean, I can do it myself, I can say, well let's do this, but I have so many great students who can do the same thing. So we had so many students come together, figure out what we should do as an organization to move forward. And they were able to show it to the showdowns yesterday. And it was great.

0:56:56
And I'm really happy about that.

0:56:57
It's so much selflessness. It's so much like unity. And that's what we need in our, in our group. group and the presentation that they gave, we're going to give it to everyone by the way, soon, but we gave it to the showdowns yesterday. I was like, oh yes, this is perfect. And I was very happy with it. And this gives me a vision of where we're going in the future for my students, not for me, my students, my advanced students were able to come up with the vision going forward. So I really appreciate that. Because I want you to do that. I don't want to say, hey, you guys gotta do this,

0:57:45
this and this.

0:57:46
I want you to be able to know the way. And then, you know, I can give some guidance at the end, but you guys are doing great. I think what you guys have done has come together and it has brought things up. And there's still some things to figure out, and I will give some guidance now that you guys have come together. I'm like, that's what I wanted to see. And now I'll say, okay, I'm in charge.

0:58:30
Just kidding.

0:58:31
No, I don't want to be in charge. That's why I want you guys to be leaders. Cause I don't want to be in charge. This is not a democracy. This is a spiritualocracy. See the Buddha's school.

0:58:42
Okay.

0:58:42
school. Okay, thank you guys so much.

0:58:50
Really wonderful to be with you.

0:58:52
Just amazing, beautiful meditations. And also, I challenge you, but I care about you. And so, if it's been difficult, you have a lot of care and love and light that's lifting you up. And so be well and be strong. Give your best. We're all here for each other, you know. I mean, I'm not here just to be above you, right? I'm here for you. And we're all here for each other. What else? We're not trying to get over on each other or something like that. We're all here to bring something in spirit together where we can feel something. Beautiful. Beautiful. I want to acknowledge that and say thank you for everything.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
