0:00:00
Hello, my name is Ijeya and welcome to today's business satsang, business yoga satsang. Sambhar has asked me to kick off the teachings for today, so I'm really, really happy to be here with you. And we'll, of course, start with meditation. This will be a one-song meditation on the heart. So please make sure you're comfortable, sit up nice and straight, and let's begin.

0:00:33
Let's begin. So we're gonna start with a meditation on the heart, and we're gonna start with a meditation on the heart, and we're gonna start with a meditation on the heart, and we're gonna start with a meditation on the heart, and we're gonna start with a meditation on the heart, and we're gonna start with a meditation on the heart, and we're gonna start with a meditation on the heart, and we're gonna start with a meditation so So, So the the the so so so so so you Thank you. So today, I'd like to talk about Buddha nature and job yoga. The yoga of our work, our work at our day jobs, and if we're also doing it, our work in our Sangha business projects, our Sangha projects. Sometimes we call that karma yoga.

0:03:08
And what is Buddha nature? If you recall from Sambara's last satsang, Buddha nature is simply our enlightened essence. What is Buddha nature? You're looking from it, at it, you are it. You couldn't get rid of your Buddha nature if you tried. Buddha nature is our eternal essence and it is perfect and always there. And like Sambara shared, it has two aspects. It has the potential, which is right here and now and perfect. And then also, we're born into this world, this physical world, we experience time, space, all of these things. And so there's a developmental aspect of Buddha nature, where we eventually grow and reconnect with that Buddha nature that perhaps we lost. So, recently I was on the East Coast of the U.S. with my family. My parents had retired there and my sister lives there. My sister has two small kids. They're I think three and five. And one of their favorite games to play is hide and seek. And fortunately, they seem to acknowledge me as a peer, and so I get to be on the hiding team. And the way we hide is we get this big blanket and we all get under it in the middle of the hallway or right next to the living room. I mean, it would be impossible not to find us. But they love it so much, and we have so much fun. We'll get under the blanket, we'll be hiding there, and we're just giddy with anticipation. And of course, at some point, we're found whenever the adults get tired of talking with one another or decide to play the game with us and we're found and discovered. And that's just as fun. You know, there's no, oh man, we got found too bad. It's joyous. And the whole process is so fun. And I don't know why, but eternity seems to love to play this game of hide and seek. When each of us is born, eternity hides in our hearts and loves every moment of the game, our buddha nature was lost to then developing, discovering, and finding it once again. Like Sambara also shared, there are three buddhist teachings or principles, the three poisons that tend to obscure buddha nature from our our experience. And these three poisons are greed or desire, all the things we want, our cravings, etc. Also, hatred or aversion, things we don't like, we don't want. Get rid of that. What's going on? And in Buddhism, these are symbolized by animals. So greed is represented by the rooster, and hatred is represented by the snake, and confusion is represented by the pig. And I was reflecting on that, and I guess I could see that, you know, a rooster might be a great representation of greed and desire. You know, I guess roosters like to chase all the hens around and, you know, eat a lot of food and stuff. Maybe. Works for me. You know, people have never really loved snakes, so maybe we're kind of projecting onto the snake, but it's a decent symbol of hatred, the things we don't like. But pigs are really smart, actually. So I was thinking about, gosh, pigs representing confusion and ignorance, I don't know. It seems to me that if you were gonna represent ignorance and confusion, a better animal might be the platypus. You know, a platypus is a mammal. It's got fur, it's got four legs, but it also has a duck bill. Literally it has the bill of a duck and it lays eggs like a duck or a lizard. It's a very strange animal. It can actually use some form of echolocation like dolphins, sends out electronic signals. It's got venom in its front paws and its front paws are webbed like an otter, but its back paws are more claws like a badger. So if there's any animal that just doesn't know what it wants to be and is really confused, it seems like the platypus would be it. So of course that reminds me of a joke. This guy was driving in a truck and in the back there's a bunch of platypuses. I'm not sure if that's the plural for platypus, but we're gonna go with that. So, he's driving in a truck with a bunch of platypuses and a police officer sees him and of course,

0:11:27
warms up the siren and pulls him over and says,

0:11:29
"'Sir, you can't drive around "'with a truck full of platypuses. "'You need to take these to the zoo right now, otherwise I'm gonna have to arrest you. And so the man driving the truck says, well, yes sir, absolutely, I'll do that right now.

0:11:49
Thank you.

0:11:50
And he drives off.

0:11:51
Now the next day, the officer's out on patrol again and he sees the same guy in a truck and he still has the platypuses in the back, but now they all have sunglasses on. So he pulls the guy over again and he says, Hey, I thought I told you yesterday to go to the zoo, but I can see you still have the platypuses in your truck. Even if they've got sunglasses, I can tell what are you doing? And the guy says, Well, I did exactly what you said yesterday, officer, we went straight to the zoo. And it was a really good idea. We had a great time. And so today, I'm taking them to the beach. So confusion is one of the three poisons that obscures our view. What does any of this have to do with job yoga? Well, from my experience, the yoga of work, the yoga of our day job, and then our Sangha yoga projects, apart from meditation and the direct teachings we get from enlightened teachers, is the very best tool, the very best vehicle for experiencing Buddha nature, and for helping us move beyond and transcend these Buddhist poisons, these three poisons.

0:13:21
So, I'd like to share just a few experiences

0:13:24
in how I've seen this work out in my own life. So, let's start with confusion. And I'd actually like to ask you, Let's start with confusion. And I'd actually like to ask you, when you think about your day job, when you bring your day job to mind, what feelings come up for you? Do you feel love, light, spaciousness, excitement, a can-do attitude? Is it heavy? Do you feel some resistance? You know, right now it's a Saturday. Are you looking forward to Monday or kind of wishing it was a longer weekend? And then when you think about maybe a Sangha yoga project you're working on, when you bring that to mind, what feelings come up? Again, is it love, light, spaciousness? Or is maybe there's some stress, anxiety, frustration, anything like that. For the majority of my career, I had a lot of confusion around work. I had lots of negativity. And so I started my career in sales and I had my first sales job. I started out really excited. I wanted to be the best salesperson and achieve something meaningful. And I started out, I almost failed for several months. I was the worst performing salesperson in the company, but I really, really worked at it. And eventually I became the top salesperson. And the fulfillment I expected to get didn't last very long at all. And so then I, well, I just kept at it. I was still a very good salesperson. I was the top in the company, but I found myself getting frustrated with the leadership and the management. And I was in a spiritual community at the time, and I was really passionate about enlightenment. So I couldn't see how my job helped that. It really seemed to be in the way of my spiritual practice. So then I had the opportunity to quit my job and to work full-time on the nonprofit that our spiritual community had started. So my full-time work was to support and grow the teachings of our spiritual community. And I thought this would be perfect. This is what I've always wanted since I first started working in a spiritual community.

0:15:52
And guess what?

0:15:55
I was stressed out, frustrated, it was hard. There were lots of parts of the job I didn't like doing. And after about three years, I burnt out from that. Took another sales job, did OK, was frustrated with the management again. I always felt like management just I could do better. And then my next job, I was very fortunate. I was promoted to become the vice president of sales for a fast growing startup in New York City. And so finally, I was in charge after, you know, thinking that I knew better than all these other knuckleheads who were managing sales. I was the person in charge. And guess what? I didn't know what to do. It was really hard. It was a lot harder than I thought. And I had never been in that experience before. I got completely stressed out. I doubted myself tremendously. And, you know, eventually I was so consumed with stress and anxiety, I had to take many months off of work and then I was fired. In a way, all my greatest fears came true and I lost that job that I thought I wanted. The next job, I was finally able to put it all together and have success. I built a sales team successfully. We sold the company. I had a lot of power success, earned a lot of money and income from that success. But eventually, you know, it got kind of tired and stagnant and, you know, eventually management changed in the new company and so I found myself frustrated again. And that was when I met Sambhara, the Sangha, the Buddha Dojo teachings, and then I learned about job yoga. And I learned about what Sambara talked about a couple satsangs ago, the yogi's explanation, which we apply to our work. Which is that we don't work because we have to, and we don't work just for a reward, but we work because it is truly an empowering and enlightening experience. And everything we experience in our work can be an opportunity to realize Buddha nature, to transcend our limited self. And you know, it's wonderful to meditate, but it's hard to meditate 40 or 50 hours a week. Sambar would usually say, after an hour, hour and a half, maybe two hours a day, you're not going to get that much more benefit. So what else are you going to do? Well, with work, you get to work 40, 50 hours a week or more. And every moment of that can be applied towards enlightenment. So I started to see that, oh, wow, you know, I'm frustrated because I didn't get the promotion I wanted in this new company. And the senior vice president, I felt, is pushing me down. And for a while I would just be all pissed off about that. But then I realized that, wow, this is showing me something about my mind. This is showing me insight that I can use to move beyond my old patterns and my limited ideas. I can learn from that and I can grow. I can accept where I am and then figure out how to go beyond it. And I saw that senior vice president who used a lot of his power to sort of keep people down. And I saw him as an incredible teacher. And my work, when we weren't going to necessarily hit our sales goal, I could see that as, wow, this is now bringing up all of my fears of failure and my desires for success. And I can really, I can look at that and go beyond it. And this is the yogi's explanation that our work, every moment of our work is an opportunity for enlightenment to realize our Buddha nature and go beyond self. And kind of like Parvati talked about in the last satsang, when she worked on that business requirements document, everything changed for me and work became this playground where I could work really hard and in every moment learn and go beyond self. So when we see this and we really understand it, then we're no longer confused about our work. We no longer have internal resistance and we see it as a gift, a blessing, an opportunity and a refuge. One of the ways I've been able to understand this the best is a couple of years ago, my partner and I got a puppy. And so we have this beautiful being that we care for, this magical puppy. And sometimes she will poop on the carpet. You know, we have tons of hardwood floors. I mean, probably 80% of the home is hardwood floor or tile, but if she's gonna have an accident, it's gonna be on that carpet. And, you know, when that happens, it's like, I don't need to, like, make up some big story about it. I just clean up the poop. And, you know, I don't decide that, well, I'm not going to feed you later because I didn't like what happened. No, I provide her with the food that evening or the next morning. And then every night when I go to bed, I know that in the morning I've got to get up early, whether I feel like it or not, to let her out. her bladder explode because she's waiting to go out, you know. And so I care for her and I accept all the responsibilities that come with making sure that she's taken care of. And when we look at our work that way, we can let go of all of the stuff we spin And, and just do the work with love and do what's required. And there's no confusion. I'll share one other insight that's been somewhat new for me over the last year or two. So like I mentioned, I'd had a pretty extensive career before joining the Sangha. And when I finally really embraced job yoga, I was able to, I guess, evolve enough to where I was invited to join a yoga company that was a business founded by other members of our Sangha, Appadhi. And so, in working on that, gosh, it was the most enlightening business experience of my life. And eventually, we had success and we sold that company. And the dharma of work and job yoga for me after that, you know, wasn't the same. And so, if I didn't want to work, I didn't really have to, you know, financially and then to follow dharma. There was no, you know, absolute requirement that I keep, you know, working a day job and pushing and growing and learning that way. And it was really nice to have a little bit of time off and have a break. But what I found is that when we don't work, which is, you know, in America, it's what everyone wants, right? I want to make millions and millions of dollars and then I won't have to work and I can just meditate all day and then I can be enlightened and spiritual or whatever I want to do, sit on the beach. That's the dream. That's what we're striving for. But I found that not working, it's kind of like what Sambara talks about with eating chocolate cake. And I have sweet teeth. I love chocolate cake, especially when there's really good icing on it. And so if I have a piece of chocolate cake, your third piece, your fourth piece, you're halfway through that cake, eventually, oh man, you are so sick of it. Eating any more cake would just be torture. And what you find is that what seemed great 20 minutes ago is now just really icky and gross. And Sambara shared the metaphor, the symbol of uncovering our Buddha nature as the lotus flower, right? Because the lotus flower likes to sink its roots down into the muck of stagnant waters and yet out of that muck this beautiful flower emerges. And what I've learned is that work lifts us up out of the muck of self. When we don't work for too long, we don't find things to work on, ways to serve others, we just get heavy and stuck and stagnant. So, earlier this week, the reason I was in the East Coast with my family was my father has been in declining health. And he passed away on Monday, so about five days ago. And Sombar was just a wonderful support through that experience. And he said, hey, EJ, if you don't want to give the talk this Saturday, that's perfectly fine. You can always give one later. And I reflected on that because there was a lot to do this week, and it was pretty difficult. And there's a lot that goes into preparing a talk. recognized that this was another perfect opportunity to apply what I've learned about job yoga and working for others. And so throughout this week, working to prepare this talk in the midst of everything else has been a beautiful refuge and a true gift to me. And it just allows me to apply what I've learned rather than being stuck in all of the other aspects of losing someone, you know, so close to you. When we embrace our work, love our work, then we can let go of that resistance and confusion and it's easier for Buddha nature to unfold. Like Dharma shared in the Business Thoughts on recently, eventually when you give yourself to the work. And that's when Buddha nature shines through, when we let go of self. And yet, what we often find when we're applying ourself to work is that it gets hard and difficult. to the hatred, the resistance of the snake and not like it when our boss makes an unreasonable demand or our yoga leader is pushing us to accomplish something that we don't know is possible or we're overwhelmed by all the things we have to do. And so what then? Well, I think it's actually, it's not that hard to understand this one, right? Because I could sit here with these little Q-tips and I could lift them lots of times, but I'm never going to get any stronger. I could lift these Q-tips all day and I could totally embrace that, but I'm not gonna get any stronger. We all know that if we want to get physically stronger, we have to push our body, our muscles out of the comfort zone. We have to lift enough weight or enough resistance that it's really hard. And we actually might go until our muscles fatigue and can't lift anymore. So we push beyond what we thought might be possible. And then in that process, our muscles actually break down and transform and we get stronger. And so as yogis in our day jobs, on our satsang, sorry, our sangha yoga projects, we have to take on big challenges and push ourselves beyond what's possible. And when things are hard, when we don't think it might be possible or that we can do it, that is the greatest opportunity to go beyond who we thought we were and go beyond our limited self. And once again, be more free and able to experience Buddha nature. So in the Appadayoga, this was where I saw this in literally every yogi on the project. I believe every engineer who worked on the Apati product started in the Buddha dojo, in the sangha, without a technical background. You know, you heard Parvati's story of learning technology in the last business yoga satsang. And so they all started without any real skill or knowledge as technologists, and yet by continually pushing, growing, taking on new challenges, stretching themselves through different jobs that forced them to learn and gave them tasks they didn't know whether or not they could do, they became world-class engineers. Every single software developer on AppBuddy was a world-class developer, and our product was amazing. And I was more responsible for the sales side, so there were a number of yogis that worked with me. The first yogi that I got to know, he took over sales from Dharma, because Dharma Dharma made all the first sales for AppBuddy as the CEO and co-founder with Parvati. And then he passed it on to another yogi who had very, very little sales experience and started out making sales calls from his car during his lunch hour. And yet he embraced that sales role. He worked incredibly hard, learned the product very well, and then became a fantastic salesperson, made some of AppBuddy's biggest sales. And then we kept asking more of this yogi. And so we asked him to go from, you know, just being a good individual contributor, individual soldier to leading and managing many of the teams in the company. So he took over customer support and customer success and sales engineering and was leading and managing all these teams. Eventually he was responsible for about 80% or more of the company's revenue. They were managed by his teams. And he did an amazing job with that and eventually became a vice president in the company. Another Yogi was also in sales and had a graduate business degree, was brilliant, but hadn't done a lot of sales either. And she started out cold calling, didn't like it. Cold calling is really hard, but did not run from the challenge, pushed through and eventually became a senior salesperson in the company as well. And yet she confided in me when we were talking that one of the hardest things for her, one of the scariest things was talking with senior IT executives. That's who we sold to. And these are typically mostly men, although fortunately that's changing. And they're very technically knowledgeable and they love to intimidate and beat up salespeople. And when you're not deeply technical yourself and I'm not either, that can be especially intimidating. So that was really challenging for her. But we embraced that challenge together. She worked through it. I encouraged her to get a subscription to the Wall Street Journal so that she could get more and more confident in her understanding of business and technology. And she just kept working at sales. And just, you know, a handful of months before we eventually sold AppBuddy, she and I were at a conference in Spain together. And she put together and delivered this incredible sales presentation with one of our customers. And she gave this to a standing room audience of IT executives. There were 80 or 100 people in the audience, and she gave one of the best presentations I've ever seen. It was amazing. And so to see her go from some of that fear and being intimidated to then commanding a room and lighting people up with the value that our product could offer. I was so proud and grateful, and I was especially grateful that she was giving the presentation and not me, because she did way better than I would have. Perhaps the most inspiring story in AppBuddy sales was another yogi in the sangha Yogi and the Sangha was a very accomplished computer programmer. And yet, this Yogi saw that AppBuddy needed help with sales. And not only that, but that if this Yogi learned sales, we didn't have a lot of salespeople in the Sangha. Most people would learn computer programming and work as technologists. So if this Yogi learned sales, they would be able to add value not only to Appli to many other yogas in the future.

0:34:32
And so.

0:34:32
This yogi just learned sales and started doing sales part time, even though they had a computer programming day job and they worked so hard at it, they took on that challenge that they eventually became a world class salesperson. they were able to move full-time from a pretty comfortable engineering job where they were completely capable and earning a great income to taking a full-time sales role. And we actually tried to hire the best salespeople we could

0:35:02
for AppBuddy.

0:35:03
So we brought in many people outside the Buddha Dojo community, people who had worked at Salesforce, for example, who are arguably the best trained salespeople in the world from other companies. And this yogi outperformed all of them.

0:35:20
And so to see these transformations

0:35:22
from taking on difficult challenges, it was easy for me to see that our job yoga, our business yoga, when we take on these tough challenges, it helps us to transform and we don't remain fixed. And as we transform and grow, we get stronger and we're more fluid. And we're able to take our meditations and our experience of Buddha nature and carry that through the day, carry that through the ups and downs of life and work. For myself, like I shared, I've been fortunate to develop a certain level of power and capability and skill and sales before I joined AppBuddy. But I quickly learned that when we work on Song of Businesses together, it's a whole next level of enlightened work. And so what had worked for me before was not appropriate for yoga, working with other yogis. Because what worked for me before is I have a pretty big heart. And so people knew I cared about them and I was a pretty good leader. But then when I wanted to get something done, I'd push really hard and I'd push my team really hard and I could be a pretty big jerk. So I just thought I got a big heart. I can be a big jerk. That seems about fair. What's the problem? But when we start to embrace job yoga, we seek to not just be great. You know, some of our I talked about the idea of the great American business person, right? Look at me. Look at what I've done. I'm so powerful and strong and rich and everything. But we seek to be good. That buddy's number one core value is to practice compassion. And we seek to move beyond self, to let Buddha nature flow through. And so I really saw that I could be very harmful and I could be very stuck in self when I just tried to push and push others. And Dharma, the CEO of AppBuddy and my yoga leader gave me some really great advice when we had another tough sales goal. We always had a tough sales goal. We were always in the process of having someone consider buying our company. And so there was always a lot of pressure. And this one felt especially challenging, this goal. But he said, EJ, you can't just grit your teeth and make this about, I EJ have to reach this goal and it's all about me and I'm going to do it, whatever. It's like, no, no, no. You have to let go of self. And, you know, of course we'll focus on the goal, but we let our Buddha nature, we let enlightenment flow through us. And that's how the goal gets reached. So we take on these challenges, we actively seek out what Parvati referred to in the last teaching beautifully as the worthy opponent. As yogis, we embrace the worthy opponent. And so not only do we let go of any resistance, but we openly accept and take on these challenges, which by definition, the current self we are doesn't know how to reach. And yet we give ourselves fully to achieving that goal. And Buddha nature is able to be less and less stuck in self and in the muck. So the worthy opponent and taking on challenges helps us grow. And if you give yourself to your work, if you accept responsibility and you're no longer fighting it and you take on these challenges, it's an incredibly beautiful thing. But what you might find is you start to get attached to the results. So this is what happened to me, and I experienced this as stress and anxiety. And so you might find this as well. We get so committed to our success, we get very attached to the results. I've gotta get that job, I've gotta pass this interview, I've gotta hit the sales goal, I've gotta figure out how to code this feature. And then there's eight features that need to be worked on and oh my gosh, what do I do? I'm freaking out, right? I don't like this and I'm stressed. So stress sucks. Stress is like every poison all wrapped up together into one big pile of. Unenlightenment. You know cuz we really, really wanna be successful but we're terrified of failing and we don't know what to do. So, I experienced stress throughout my career and then even within AppBuddy because even more than ever, I wanted to be successful with AppBuddy. So how do we work through stress? Well, at one point I tried to take a vacation and I was like, okay, I'll just take a little time. I mean, that'll help me to overcome this stress I'm experiencing and so I decided to go skiing and it started out great, and I thought I could recommend this to all of my friends. But pretty quickly, things started to go downhill fast. So I wish I had a magic bullet for you to cure stress and anxiety. I wish there was one thing I did that the moment I had that insight, I was no longer bothered and I just worked perfectly without any attachment to the results. But it didn't work like that for me. Instead, what I had to do was I had to apply all of the teachings. So when we're overwhelmed with stress, it can be really easy to either run away and shut down and binge watch Netflix or shove massive amounts of food in our face and just kind of run away or just work non-stop and forget our practice and lose sight of that. Well, what I found was that if I recognized that the stress and the anxiety was again another lesson for me. You know, people can take on all kinds of things that would be much more stressful than any of the experiences we have and they're just fine with them, right? So I knew that stress was in my mind and that there was always Buddha nature and that I could work through it if I applied myself. And so I just worked on meditation. I never gave up my meditation practice. I worked on my meditation. And a lot of my meditations would be me stressing out and thinking about the problem or whatever. But I would keep at it. I would go to martial arts practice or get my exercise in. And I would practice compassion for myself and others. And you know what happened was that over time I was able to take on more and more challenge and experience less and less stress. So after about a year at AppBuddy, I, we, we accomplished our goal for four quarters in a row. It was great. But then this next quarter where we had our sales goals, I looked at the goals and I looked at our pipeline and what's possible and I was like, there's no way we can hit our goals. I don't see any way we can do it. And I really went into a panic attack. I, for about a week, I was just stuck in fear and stress and not knowing what to do and really beating up on myself about it. I remember we had a guest enlightened teacher come to speak and do a workshop. And I was so stressed and I was especially worried because I was one of the more senior students in the song and I was like, oh my gosh, we invited this other enlightened teacher and their students and they're going to look at me and they're going to be like, what kind of song are you all running with this loser here who's just totally stressed out? And I was so just scared and struggling. And every day I would just show up to work and I'd do my best and go home, meditate, exercise. After about a week, I was able to finally work through that and I was able to get to work. And we reached our sales goals that quarter, which was cool. We totally tanked the quarter after that, but who's counting, right? The next year, I went through the same thing. We reached our goals in Q2 and then Q3. I was like, oh my gosh, I don't see a way. And I went back into a panic. This time, that panic and anxiety lasted for a day. I just worked through it for that day, meditated, stayed focused on just the best I could do, and the next morning I woke up, I had a good meditation, and I was able to get back to work. Fast forward another year and a half, and I was sitting there on a Saturday, doing some work, checking email, and I get this email, and it's our top salesperson. This person wasn't a member of Buddha Dojo, but they were a fantastic salesperson, and at the time, they were responsible for about 40 to 50% of our sales. And she sent me this email, and she quit.

0:45:45
And this is exactly what I did.

0:45:47
I just read that email, and I started laughing. I'd been through so much, and I'd worked so hard in my practice that I could take it. And I recognized that, you know, like Samvara's teaching in the Enlightenment workbook, good, bad, who's to say? And so I let Dharma and Parvati know, and we're able to work through it. So I have found that when you experience stress and anxiety, it can be helpful to, when you're out of it, start to understand what are the thought patterns and the karmic things that happen in your mind and your spirit and start to articulate them. So for example, I tend to have a really tough situation, and then I immediately start to think about what would all these mythical people, like enlightened beings like Sambara, or Buddha, or Mother Teresa, or whoever, what would they do in this situation? And then I look at myself, and they seem so much higher than me, that I'm like, oh my gosh, I'm a loser. You know, or what would Bill Gates or Steve Jobs or Sandy Lerner, these titans of business do? And I'm not that capable. So, you know, and then I get into these really, really negative spirals of self-doubt, beating up on myself, convincing myself that I'm screwing it all up. And by understanding that process, I can start to see it and see that it's actually pretty ridiculous and not necessary, and I can let go of it. So we can understand the things that trigger our anxieties and stress and start to really work through them. But ultimately it comes down to trusting the process. We have so many beautiful teachings in our school and they all compliment one another. If we don't do martial arts, we don't learn some really important lessons that can help us in job yoga and help us in our meditation. If we don't meditate, we really lose that regular connection with our Buddha nature that comes from being still, focusing our mind, independent of everything that's going on in the world. And when we don't do our job yoga, you know, we get stuck. When we don't practice compassion, we lose an incredibly valuable component of our work and our path. So over time, I've been able to move beyond stress and anxiety. And I recognize it now. Some of our shared with the three poisons, you just want to hold them lightly. And it's so easy when you get stressed, you're like, Oh my God, I'm stressed. Now I'm really stressed about the stress. And I'm totally freaked out. Or you're like, I don't want to go to work. And I really don't want to go to work. And that's so terrible. And oh my goodness, now I'm like, really gonna beat up on myself for not wanting to go to work. These are just all the games that the self likes to play and hide and seek game we're playing with eternity. And so I look at stress and anxiety in particular now is like kind of like having a head cold or having a slightly sprained ankle. You know I can still practice martial arts even if I injured my ankle a little bit. I just have to be a little more careful and just keep practicing the techniques and moving forward. I have a head cold, I can still work, it's just maybe I'm not my sharpest. And so when I have stress and anxiety, I just look at it and I say, okay, I can do one thing at a time and work through it and know that this will pass.

0:49:51
So confusion,

0:49:52
resistance and hatred and desire and greed. We can work through all of these through our job yoga and especially through yoga working with other Sangha members. So when I joined the AppBuddy company, like I said, it took everything to a next level. And it was so beautiful to be able to work with other Sangha members. You know, it's wonderful to meditate together. We go on power trips together and yeah, maybe we're rooming together in an Airbnb and we kind of have to work out like cleaning the dishes or whatever. That's great. You know, when we meditate together, it's nice. And maybe someone's breathing really heavy or, you know, kind of having a hard time. We have to work through that. But when we work together, that's when something truly magical happens. And we find out what we're made of and we learn from each other and we grow exponentially beyond our limited identities of self. And that's certainly what I found with App Buddy. And what was so beautiful with App Buddy was that every single yogi, by the time we finally had sold the company, every single yogi embraced their work. We all embraced the work. We had no resistance, no confusion. And we knew it was really tough and we just took on the challenges. And we did that with an open heart and the greatest degree of selflessness that we could muster. And we really let go of the results. We had failed six times to sell the company. And so the only thing we knew for sure was that we were never going to quit. And there's this great scene in Captain America. Before he gets to the super serum, he's this scrawny guy. And he stands up to a bully. And the bully, I guess, takes him into this back alley because the bully starts punching him, knocking him down. He gets up, gets punched again, and the bully's like, okay, have you had enough, Captain America? He gets up and takes a swing, tries to hit him, and the bully, of course, just punches him back down again. And he's like, aren't you ever gonna quit? And Steve Rogers, this scrawny little guy from Brooklyn, just says, I could do this all day.

0:52:23
And then later, he's Captain America,

0:52:24
and the Red Skull is punching him. He's again, he's just like, I could do this all day. And when we embrace our work, we take on challenges. Eventually we learn to take a punch and we are able to grow and work beyond it. So whether we're really working hard on this interview to get that first job, or we have a tough job right now that we need to learn from and grow, or we're in a situation where finding that next job is the right thing, or we're working with a handful of yogis on a sangha business and we've got to figure out how to get that product into market or grow revenue. As we just go through that process together and we never quit, we move beyond self and we get to truly experience Buddha nature. So thank you so much for your time today. And we are going to take a 10 minute break.

0:53:37
and when we come back, Sambara will provide the remaining teachings for today. Thank you. Hello everyone. All right, so that was a very beautiful and inspiring teaching. So, Very, very, very nice. Now, I'd like to share with you,

0:54:07
okay, hold on.

0:54:08
All right, I think we're set.

0:54:10
All right, so that was a very beautiful teaching

0:54:14
and in that teaching, I saw a really beautiful aspect of yoga that reminds me of Buddha nature. And it is really a Buddhist secret teaching. And it is a secret teaching that exposes Buddha nature. So there was a senior VP of networks and technology at T-Mobile, and she married a senior VP of network at Verizon. They had a great wedding, it was all beautiful, but the reception was terrible.

0:55:18
So you have to have some humor.

0:55:21
Now I really liked that in EJ's teaching, he went through a lot of hardship and difficulty and then got to this one point where the main salesperson who was in charge of 50% of the sales in the company quits. And his reaction is laughter. This is a very humor in difficulty. You know, the world has good and bad, but enlightenment is in all things. And so to have a sense of humor is to have a sense of your Buddha nature. So when we look at our lives and our work, we have to look for not only, you know, everyone says love your work, you know, be happy in your work.

0:56:52
So I read this article and it said, three-year-olds laugh 300 times in one day. Isn't that funny?

0:57:08
See?

0:57:09
Adults between the age of 23 and 67 laugh two to four times a day. Some of them just don't laugh. So this is a very interesting thing to me because 23 to 67 is pretty much your working years. Buddha nature gets covered over by the three poisons, and you can't see the Buddha nature. And humor gets covered over by the three poisons, and you can't see anything as funny. You just become cynical. You become the jaded monk. Even if you're a Buddhist monk, the jaded monk is a Buddhist monk who's been around for a long time and that the new bright happy beginners and beginner mind Buddhist monks join the monastery and the jaded monk's like, oh my gosh, that's going to last like 15 minutes. Wait until you have to sit in meditation for four hours. Wait until you have to wake up at four in the morning every day. Wait until you always have to wash in cold water, even in the winter. You know, so that's the jaded monk. So we become very covered over and jaded. And if you don't unravel it, if you don't have some attention to see a deeper truth, then you'll exist in a humorless life, covered over and just in a conditioned karmic experience and you won't see your Buddha nature. It's found in humor. And in yoga, karma yoga and job yoga, we seek to actually find those funny moments and the funny moments might happen at difficult times, but if you have humor, that's where it exposes your enlightened nature. So like when EJ sits down and his number one salesperson calls, says, I'm out and they're the one who's bringing in half of the sales of the company that ace salesperson quote that is actually funny so all of enlightenment is understanding the of life and also the humor of life. Humor is levity. Humor releases that which is stuck, right? People are like, I'm not happy. Then a comedian gets up and tells a joke. Then they start smiling, they laugh. It releases the tension of self

1:00:50
So it's very powerful and we practice it in work

1:00:54
we

1:00:55
practice

1:00:56
Humor and work not like a stand-up comic We find the humor in our world Even when things are difficult But even when things are good but Especially if you can find humor in the difficulty, then that's very powerful. So I love that story. I love the story about the platypus. Platypus is, yeah, those are funny, funny things. And the platypus is going to the zoo and the beach. It's really great. But, you know, that's a confusion. And a lot of people are in confusion in their career. And that's why having a joke about it opens awareness. A joke, having a sense of humor, opens awareness like crazy. Everyone can be so focused on a certain idea in a certain way, and then that joke, it relieves a psychic pressure.

1:02:12
Another time I remember with EJ,

1:02:15
it was probably one of the times he was talking about, probably the third year where he said, everything went bad and that year where our salesperson quit. But he said, he came to me and he said, one of our biggest customers left us and went to our competitor. And we're also going for this other big deal, but our competitor has more features. So they're going with our competitor. And I think at the same time, our greatest sales person quit. I think he came to me with that. And I said, I was like, okay. And then he said, but, let's look on the bright side. And I was very happy about that. And I said, yes. And then he said, and when you find it, please tell me what it is. And it was just a little joke. But he had such bad news. And as I learned today, he laughed when he got the first information that she was quitting. And then he comes to me with another joke. And that, we had this pressure in our business, and this is dollars and cents. You've got this great salesperson who's making half your income as a business. She was an ace. And then she goes away. That's not something to make a joke of. It's not something to laugh at. She quit.

1:04:15
Ha ha ha. And then, hey, she quit.

1:04:18
And here's a little funny joke.

1:04:19
Ha ha ha.

1:04:20
No. No, that's not something to be frivolous about. But humor is not frivolous. Humor creates balance. It gets you out of those self-reactions that will, you know, something bad happened to you, you start to spiral down. Humor blasts that away and gives you opportunities. And that's why AppBuddy was successful, because they were able to say, well, something really bad happened, and then we found other opportunities to grow. Humor doesn't. So humor is good.

1:05:08
Humor is very strong.

1:05:10
I remember a really great Bruce Lee story. And Bruce Lee, enter the dragon, was coming in to a big martial arts tournament on a boat on an island. And there's this one guy who's like, I think I could beat you. I could beat you. Let's fight right now on the boat. And he said, no, the boat, there's too many people. We should go on the little boat.

1:05:44
And then the guy goes, okay,

1:05:47
if it's just a six foot on the boat, we're gonna fight on it, we can settle it. And then the guy gets on the boat and then Bruce pushes the boat off. He's like, I won. Yeah, so there's all sorts of ways of winning. So when you have humor, you have motivation. And a little motivation goes a long way. So Parvati would always send me, and I'm the chairman of the board, or I'm on the board, or I'm just too bored of being on the board. I'm off the board, or on the surfboard, or something like that. And then, but a big thing came up, where, oh my goodness, we got this great giant sale. And we have to do, we had a, like a architecture that was cool for this level, but with this big, big, big sale, we have to do security at the cloud level. It's huge. And so Parfati said, I got this problem, this problem, this problem, this problem, this problem, this problem, problem, problem, and asking me, what do you think we should do? What do you think we should do? And then at the end, then she said, thanks. And here's a, here's a joke. And I read the joke and I read, I read through all of the problems and it was intense and difficult. It was one of the major things that was a technological difficulty. But I read through it and I was like, whoa, I don't know. Oh, man, it's going to cost a lot. Oh, wow, this is a lot of people involved. Oh, there's some difficulty. You've got to figure things out. And then I got to the joke was this Parvati said so my uncle Moyshe after synagogue brewed the best coffee and I was like whoa I'm like, Moishe, Senegal, okay, good. Jewish cultural reference. And so I was like, okay, great. And then she said, his coffee was so good. It was the best, everybody loved it. Do you know how he did it? He brewed it. And that little joke, at the end of this,

1:08:46
here's a whole bunch of trouble that we're getting into,

1:08:49
and then here's a little bit of a joke at the end, it just motivates you a little bit to say, all right, cool. Now let me, it actually switches energy, and you say, all right, let me talk to these other difficult points. It releases pressure. It releases pressure. And the AppBuddies did this all the time. I remember there was a time in AppBuddy where they were developing and working on things. And we wanted to create a really good yogic environment. And we had, you know, outside people were like, no, we're not just this weird, you know, group working on just weird spiritual stuff. Dharma, who was really pushing it forward and being strong but at that time he was being a little bit too explosive or a little bit difficult for people and EJ had a loving term for that whenever Dharma would say, what? You guys got to do this right, gotta do that right. He was always trying to push them forward. And AJS called it Dharmageddon. And that was funny. And when he said it, everybody relaxed. And we were like, I thought it was my boss yelling at me. And then he's like, don't worry, it's just Dharmageddon. And it was really cool. And then, after that, I was hanging out with Dharma, who's a great CEO, who learned that lesson. He was very open to it. He was like, it hurts when you call me Darmageddon but he's like but I have to recognize that that's what I am doing to make you make that joke of me and we also will if somebody's to joke of you you have to like actually love that joke take it in and say people are seeing something if people make a joke of you on the internet you have to be like, good joke. Thanks for you know shaming me like that or whatever it is. You know just take it in and say if you say it I can accept it and have a sense of humor. And then, you know, once he went through that thing, I was talking to him, and he said, I'm a CEO, but I'm not a boss. I'm not a boss or a manager. I'm a friend. And that's such a beautiful way to be. He said, but I'm a friend who is always right. And a friend who knows everything and a friend who you want to do everything for that friend so that friend is happy.

1:12:42
And I was like,

1:12:44
that's good.

1:12:46
It's really good. It's just jolly. And that was the thing where he could accept the difficult stuff and also move forward and not be the, you're fired, you're fired! He wasn't that kind of guy. Like, he was honest.

1:13:19
And...

1:13:20
Yeah, so... This is what we do. And that makes a great workspace. And if you're doing yoga, karma yoga, group spiritual teaching, then be open. Be open to people showing you, hmm, that's not right. If you have a problem with something, it's your problem. That's the wonderful thing of Karma Yoga. But then, when you work on the world, then everything is a dance because everyone else in the world is not trying to be enlightened, not trying to get higher. They're just rolling through their karmas. And then these principles and openness, they apply here. They are ever-present. Experience of meditation, mindfulness, and the observations of job yoga. And that's what comes out of it. It's an amazing thing. Job yoga, karma yoga, is what Buddha called right livelihood. So these things are one fold of the eight fold path. Something that brings enlightenment. All right, so, when we are focused on career, we're focused on being successful, we have to be positive, and humor always brings positivity. Even in opposition, when things get difficult, it's hard, it's difficult, something bad happens, things are horrible. Your senior, perfect, top sales performer goes to the enemy, they go to your enemy. You say, oh, what am I going to do? That's okay. Just relax. And focus. And practice. Be selfless. Selfless is to be able to focus on your strengths. If you don't react, you can have a focus on your strengths. But go for the reaction and focus. Okay, so there was a time where we were working on our yoga, developing ourselves, and we had hardship, difficulties, and struggle. And then, we had a war room. So it's a room where we were focusing on doing things all together. We're like, oh, gotta do this, code this, the CTO is right here, like we're all together

1:17:33
trying to figure this out.

1:17:34
There was a lot of stress. Can you imagine?

1:17:37
Yeah, a lot of stress. I think they need to do this in Washington, D.C.

1:17:49
We brought some puppies.

1:17:51
We're like, this is our war room where we bring all of our best minds together. And yet, some people had puppies. We brought them together. And in that war room, we were like, you have to do it like this. Now that's the wrong technology. And this and that. All sorts of struggling with business concepts. And then these two little scraps, they would just come together and play. They would play like little dogs and little puppies. They were puppies. And while we were talking about difficult business and our competitors and our inabilities and the places that we were weak in our software, everything that we were going through, these little puppies would play. And it was hilarious. And it was funny, and it was gorgeous, and it was loving. And so we're trying to have a business argument. This is human students. No, I don't like your business argument, I like mine. And the little dogs are just, little puppies are playing. So, you say, there's something so funny in that. It broke down all the pressure and made everything great. And we have a hard talk and go, oh, that's cool. Anger and ignorance. truth and just appreciation for a dog or flower or the ocean or anything So

1:20:11
We let that go

1:20:13
We have to let that go we have to see That we can let it go or if you have a dog or a cat or something then or a cat or something. And then, maybe sometimes you need a picture. You're sitting there in the middle of a cubicle in this 10,000, 10 billion square foot factory of computer programs, or someone's garage and you're like it's either the Jode versus Volcano dark little office or maybe the Silicon Valley great office or maybe you're smart and it's your home office but what to click. Something needs to make you see the light in your work. So what is it? Sometimes it's the puppies. Sometimes it's the mission and the intent for enlightenment.

1:21:38
Intent for enlighten- this is my superhero move.

1:21:43
Intent for enlightenment!

1:21:45
I gave that to you guys. You guys got that? Well maybe you need puppy. Maybe you need also a picture. A picture of a beautiful tropical island maybe it's Kona where I am now Kona such a beautiful place maybe it's the Maldives maybe it's the Bahamas what's a place to you that brings power in looking at a picture of that perfect white sand beach, that perfect place of power, what is it for you? Please don't say it's Las Vegas. Find a place in nature where breadwood forests, bodewoods, a place on a mountain. Find a place that takes you out of self and brings you to Buddha nature. But that's why we say the secret is humor. Because there could be the great mountain in the Himalayas. That would be the Enlightenment Mountain. But we could also say, what about that other mountain that's really silly? And if you can get funny about it, you can see Enlightenment anywhere. So we're going to do a little thing. We're going to take our careers very seriously. It's like, career makes me powerful. And career is not something to be unserious about. It's like, I've been in some, oh, I need to start telling you guys martial arts dojo jokes. It's like, I'm in a dojo. I punched you, you didn't block. That's pretty funny. And then you punched me, and I didn't block, and it's pretty funny. And then we become very, very strong working together in the dojo. Never get mad at someone in your school. They're always helping you. So the thing is, you've got to bring your attention up and have a sense of humility. And, you know, this is a great thing. You can take these guys who are like seventh degree black belts and they can fight it out, and then one guy wins, and another guy might get hurt, and he'll laugh and say, that was funny, I mean, you did good, that was the win. But it's also win if you lose and you laugh. The one who loses and laughs, I think is a bigger fighter. I was in a big MMA tournament in Honolulu many years ago. And there was this two great fighters. This one from this island, big island of Hawaii and one from Tokyo. And they fought and the Hawaiian one, definitely, definitely. And really, he punished and hurt the Japanese guy, and then the Japanese guy came up and said, thank you? He's like, uh, honu, I think he was saying, he's like, I see you as a sensei. And he said, you made me stronger. Even though punching, kicking, fight, beat the crap out of you, you made me stronger. And he said, hey, tomorrow, he got on the mic, and he said, tomorrow when you see my face, I'm going to be walking around Honolulu, and Waikiki.

1:26:26
When you see my face, he's like,

1:26:28
I'm not a clown, I'm a friend.

1:26:30
Because he had a lot of, you know,

1:26:32
but clowns have a little bit of makeup.

1:26:35
That was funny.

1:26:36
You can take a fight and get hurt and be funny. You can be a loser and be funny. And if you're funny, you'll learn and you open and you gain something. All right, so puppies are funny. Pictures are funny. And winning and losing is funny in both ways. But we're gonna do a transmission teaching and it's going to go to music is funny because we're going to play a special song from the Vayu Napa album and it is the song called the kitchen is a restaurant. It's a restaurant that I like a lot, that I've eaten at many times, and I've brought many students to. And at this restaurant, you do a very kind of yogic experience. You can eat anything you want. And there's just a kind of magical eating yoga experience when you go to Kishin Dora. And especially if you go with me. It's a magical experience. It's a restaurant that serves hamburgers and chicken sandwiches and half chickens. I don't know, like culture is what we call regular food. But the chef was a three Michelin star chef and he's come to this place, this career where he went to New York, LA, San Francisco and he's like, this is the place where I just want to be happy with food. Enough experience and success and share his heart through food. So that restaurant is a place of heart, even though you just get a hamburger or a chicken sandwich. He does it in a way where there's a lot of heart in his food. And so for us to meditate, we created a song, our meditation music, a song about our experiences at this restaurant. I think it's funny and ridiculous and trivial and that's why it's great humor. We're gonna meditate together and it's just going to be one One song on the third eye. And don't think about hamburgers and hot dogs. Think about the power of place that does yoga and they are funny. I've watched them over the years. But this is our funny moment to meditate about a restaurant, meditate about food. And this meditation is a meditation of humor where it's very serious, it's very still. Humor. Humor. We're meditating about a restaurant. But, we're meditating about releasing humor, let go of tension, have a great sense of community, point of where the self is framed and to be still and aware the moment and and it's also kind of funny it's a moment and reflection on a food restaurant Alright, we're going to sit light focused on the third eye and if you would, please

1:31:14
look up to me.

1:31:15
Let's begin.

1:31:16
the

1:31:23
the the the the the the so the the the the the the the the the the the So So Explosion of light at the end. Well, I couldn't hear the end there. Okay, so here's the thing I'd like you to consider. What is your job right now?

1:34:19
Whether it is a good job or a side hustle. What is your job?

1:36:05
What do you do?

1:36:06
Or maybe it's going to school, but I'd like you to take a moment of reflection to find out for your job, if you say job, maybe whatever it is that you consider your job, maybe it's talking to your parents that's your job. Your job is to be a kid. That's a job too. Find three funny things about whatever is your livelihood. Your livelihood might be parents are paying for school. So parents are a livelihood. School is also a livelihood. Maybe you have a part-time job. Livelihood. Anywhere where you're supported by others, that's supporting you. That's your livelihood so that you have the support so that you can practice. So, what's funny about every single thing that's supporting you, even if it's government loan, because I can make like ten jokes about that right now. So, find what's funny in your life about your livelihood. Livelihood is one of the most important structures for enlightenment. He didn't leave it out. It wasn't the seven noble pathway to enlightenment. He said, hey, there's eight things you have to do for enlightenment and job and livelihood and career is one of them. I'd like you to do a little homework, which is, of every different aspect of your livelihood, find three funny things. And if you do that, that is going to be something that reveals so much levity. It breaks you out of karma. of the three passions, the three angers, the three ignorance's, the three poisons, those

1:38:27
three things that create so much trouble, breaks you out of it. So, find humor in your three things that create so much trouble, breaks you out of it. So, find humor in your

1:38:38
life and find your broken nature. Okay, thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
