0:00:00
Hello everyone. We're going to begin with meditation. Sit up nice and straight. Bring the focus to the heart. And let's begin.

0:00:15
the the the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So So So So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So So Alright. All right. So today I'd like to talk about my favorite subject, enlightenment. So enlightenment

0:01:36
is the direct awareness of life without any mental modifications. Enlightenment is accepting your Buddha nature as your ascendance point, your point of perception. It is the acknowledgement of the eternality of your being and really this deliberate assertation of residing there, being in that eternal state of unity. Enlightenment is a real thing. It's not just words, although we have words to describe enlightenment, we have words to direct you towards enlightenment, but it's a real condition, a real state of existence, a state of being. And it's a state that is free of suffering. So, like that. It's a state of being that is fluid with states of mind. It's a condition where whenever you get into a fixed sense of self or a certain state of mind, at the core of your being, you can let go and flow with the truth of life. So it's a very remarkable condition because you can experience eternity, direct truth of life, and never get stuck in a bad mood or in a limited view. Enlightenment is always shifting and opening to greater Dharma. Now from the point of view of the self, it is impossible to achieve because the self is always stuck in dissatisfaction, suffering, disturbing thoughts, disturbing emotions, limited view points on everything. And that's what the ego is, that's why to be enlightened you have to yield that self, you have to transcend that self. But it's not really actually that hard if you really want it. It does take some work, some doing and some undoing, but it's not an impossible thing. You know, have you heard about the enlightened Zen donut? You know, once he accepted his holiness, enlightenment was easy. So, you know, that's our Buddha nature, we're all a bunch of Zen donuts. But you just have to, you know, there are things to do things not to do you have to actually start applying yourself to a training you have to develop uh... your awareness cultivate and uh... and awareness of truth so meditation is the essential practice mindfulness yoga these are practices disciplines that build this momentum and they bring you to the highest states of mind and the places where you can start letting go of the self. In the beginning, it's not an easy thing to do. It takes some training, but you can do it. And in the beginning, if you're loosening the self, you want all the shortcuts, you want the easy way, you want to get enlightenment without getting rid of the self, because you kind of like the self. So you're like, oh wait, let me try something. I want to be enlightened, what if I just ingest a bunch of helium? Maybe that'll work. The self comes up with all these silly schemes, and they never work. And all you have to do is commit yourself to training training in Dharma, cultivation of enlightened attention, meditation, mindfulness, yoga. And if you just do it, eventually you'll start to see that, you know, you come to it with all these ideas, all these plans, all these things that you're hooked onto. But if you keep meditating, keep practicing mindfulness, keep doing yoga, then eventually all those schemes and plans of the self will go away. And then you look back on them and say, that was a ridiculous idea I had. I was going to make myself into a balloon or something. That's what I thought enlightenment was. So it is actually that ridiculous. People, the way that they conceive of enlightenment, it's really funny and weird, strange ideas. Enlightenment isn't that. But you have to train, you have to work on things. And it's funny because we start to see if I want to be enlightened, I have to go and do all these things, you know, I've got to go to Tibet, I've got to go to India, I have to do all these things, I've got to go somewhere and do something. And enlightenment exists now, here, in your life, in your world. It's not somewhere else. So, you know, one time there was a monk sitting there, and then these other monks go, Hey, you want to come up to the top of this holy mountain with us? in there and he said Namaste here. You don't have to do all these things. That's where the self wants to make itself say, oh if I just take some helium that's going to enlighten me. It's just silly ideas. So it's very important to understand what enlightenment isn't more than what it is. Because enlightenment is more of, it's not getting something, it's actually letting go. It's not getting a thing, oh I got an enlightenment, I'm happy. It is letting go of the past, and to exist in the moment. To be here, be now, bring your mind to the moment. And then you recognize what enlightenment is in the present moment. It's not something somewhere else, somewhere else. And it's not those hallmark card ideas of, you know, you have to go to the top of the mountain and sit there and be the wise person. It's not this thing where, oh, I have to go and, you know, you know, be in a monastic order. These are all these ideas, or it's not like the omnipresent master who knows everything and sees all, right? It's not those things. And even though, you know, you hear those things, people say those things, they go, gosh, you know, that's the definition. And you have this, like, I call it the Hallmark card idea of what enlightenment is, but it's not. Now, there's an old story where there was this great, famous yogi, and I'm not gonna say his name because I don't want to offend anyone who likes him, because he's cool, but he was all like, I'm omnipresent, I know all. And everyone was like, yeah, he says so, so we got to believe him. And then this one merchant, you know, offered him and some of his students dinner, but this merchant just didn't buy that stuff. He was like, I'm going to give him a test. And he dug a hole in front of his front door, a deep hole. And then he had a bunch of pig crap put into the hole. Then he covered it with like just a light, like little sticks and some leaves. And then sure enough, the great yogi Yogi comes over, comes over to knock on the door, falls in to the hole, and a bunch of pig poo poo. And then the merchant comes and says, you know, well if you know everything and you're everywhere, then why would you fall into this pig crap? And then the merchant, you know, is like, I proved you wrong. But then the Seogi says, I knew it! And I wanted to fall into it. Which is really hard to believe. But these are like these funny stories that we like, we hear, it's like, oh, the enlightened guru knows all. They know some things. You know, like, enlightenment isn't actually knowing everything. You know, it's not, it's like, you can't go to an enlightened teacher and say, and they go, did you have lasagna last night? They might have a little insight. All sorts of different kinds of awarenesses, but they don't know everything. person knows the essential truth of being. And that isn't any particular way, it has nothing to do with the particulars of life and the karmas and knowing everything in the finite world. It's just knowing really the truth, the heart of being and the truth of the eternal spirit. It's accepting your Buddha nature. So it's just, that's called just being ego-less. The ego grabs onto identifying qualities, states of mind, histories, personal things and it has limited grasping self qualities. Enlightenment is just letting go of it. And it's not something like, oh my gosh, I know everything. I know how to fix a carburetor in a 1957 Chevy. You know, that's not enlightenment. That's finite knowledge. So enlightenment quite simple and boring. When Bodhidharma came to China, and Bodhidharma was this great enlightened master, the 27th lineage holder from the Buddha, and came to bring Buddhism, and it took him four years to travel to China. And when he got there, the Chinese emperor was waiting for him. He knew he was going to come. Buddhism had already been sprinkling around, but now, you know, the enlightened master, the lineage holder of Buddha was coming. So, he's like, oh, boy, oh, boy, I'm waiting for him. It's taking him a long time. And then one day, he shows up. And then the emperor says, all right, this is really exciting. And he's all, well, who are you? And Bodhi Nirmal goes, no one. And he's all like well what do you know? Like what's all your thing? Your attainment and all this stuff? He's all, nothing. And then he's all, oh, okay. Well I'm bored. So, go away. I want someone with a big, I don't know, anything. You gotta look right, you gotta cut right. You know, you're supposed to like say, yeah, I'm here. And have I got a sale pitch for you. Enlightenment, one, two, three, you know, whatever. But this was an enlightened master. Who's that? Who are you? No one. No personal history, no self, no ego. God, that's letting go of... and what's your attainment? Well, nothing. What do you attain? When you attain enlightenment, we always think that it brings you up to enlightenment, but enlightenment already exists within you. So it's more like a letting go. It's not I attain something. It's not I'm this high spiritual thing, it's ego-less, letting go of all of that. Enlightenment is also referring to truth. So an enlightened person always focuses on the Dharma. Whenever you get into a karmic situation, in whatever situation you're in, they always are looking for the truth. They're always directing their mind, their attention, their action, their words to truth, to the Dharma. And that's a... and maybe it's a very subtle thing, maybe it's a big visible thing, but their mind is always inclining to the dharma, inclining to the truth. It's always moving to a place of greater unity, greater purity, greater humility, and then what results is truth. So, one person that I know that exemplifies that is an enlightened student of my teacher. I think he was the first one to attain liberation. And he especially focuses on compassion. And I remember talking to him and we were talking about very beautiful experiences of higher learnings. And he would always say, compassion, it's so important to practice compassion so that all beings can have these higher learnings. So in every story of some high, beautiful, successful, wonderful thing, he would always say, practicing compassion is so important so that it brings people to these wonderful high elevated awarenesses. And then when we talk about problems and hardships, then he'd say, this drives me to compassion. We have to practice compassion so that people can be free from those kinds of suffering. So whether it was the really good, most amazing, high things, or the things that were great and suffering, he would always say this is a reason for compassion. This drives me to compassion. So an Enlightened One always is going towards truth, towards compassion, towards meditation, towards mindfulness, through right speech, right livelihood. Everything that they do is always directed to truth and an enlightened one also transcends karma. Karma, there's always you know you drop something it falls there's a physical karma so we're all existing in a physical world that has physical karmas but in spirituality we're always talking about the karma of the self, the mind, the thoughts, the emotions. When you can work through the karmas of the self and the mind, you'll still be in the physical world. You're going to die someday, that's a karma, but you'll be That's what enlightenment is. So I remember a story of Yogi Ram Sarath Kumar, an enlightened saint in India. And he had come from the north. So he was up in New Delhi. And then when he was in New Delhi, he got this psychic seeing message from Vivekananda, this great enlightened teacher. And he's like, you've got to go to the south go to the south so he's like okay i'm going to the south so he goes to the south and there he meets a great enlightened teacher and then he kind of is going around through the monolai by himself this famous beautiful spiritual mountain Arunachala and he's uh back then there was a big kind of racism because the North Indians who were kind of in charge of the country, the South Indians kind of didn't like it. So he experienced a lot of racism. He, you know, he spoke Hindi, didn't speak the local language very well and everyone was like, oh gosh, we don't like you. And so they gave him a hard time. He experienced violence against people. People would beat him. People would try to run him over with cars. They threw him into a gutter. He was like meditating. They threw him into a gutter. And those gutters there are bad. If you're a Westerner, you don't know what a gutter is. So they gave him a really hard time and he suffered a lot. But he just kept meditating. He just kept following the dharma. And then he transcended the karmas of his feelings, of his self, and then he just radiated with life. radiated with light. And then he did not suffer at all. Even though people would hit him or be mean to him, he didn't have any internal angst. He was free inside. And then people started to notice him. They're like, hmm, you know, you were poking him and he doesn't care anymore. You know, it's like, he's been there smiling. What's going on? There's some glow about him. And then they started to sit with him, listen to his teachings, and go, wow. And then he became a great guru of the area. He has the biggest ashram over there. So he transcended the karma within and that's the most important thing that's what we call enlightenment but when you do that it also can change the karmas around you it can affect everyone in a way of elevated truth elevated consciousness it's a it's a powerful thing when you can change you can let go of the karma inside then it also changes things on the outside in beautiful ways and uh when you're enlightened you do powerful things you gain personal power in that in that act of letting go of himself then he created this great movement of Dharma in this town, this area. But every time you practice and cultivate the Dharma, the truth, every time that you develop concentration, focus, compassion, become more impeccable, selfless in your yoga, you are creating this thing we call personal power. It's enlightened energy within you and you can do great things Now I remember a great yogi named the karma long and he's a Tibetan Buddhist he did a nine-year retreat He was a young monk and he's just don't know what I'm gonna go for a nine-year retreat And he goes into this cave for nine years, says a mantra for nine years, really is working on it. Has no idea if it's working or not. He's just all worked on it, worked on it, worked on it. And then when he came out of the cave, he didn't notice anything. He was just still, quiet. He didn't know if he went through a high state of mind or if he became enlightened. He was just sitting in a cave, practicing. And then he had a little rock that he liked there. And he was just showing one of his friends, like, yeah, this is, I was like holding this rock in my hand and, you know, doing my mantra meditation. And this friend says, oh, that's a cute little rock. Can you see it? And he hands it to him and it goes, ah, it's red hot. It was like, it's, it burned my hand. And he, he gained this power by doing this practice. It's the power of the inner heat. And so he can, you know, take a little piece, a little, he has this little metal stick and he makes it red hot and then he can kind of, like an acupuncturist, find a certain place in your body and go, it's, so it's not a needle, but it's a really hot piece of metal and it just burns you. But then it creates this healing. So he gained this power, that internal heat and this internal heat for healing by cultivating the dharma. This is a very powerful thing. Now many of my students do this. They don't sit in a cave for nine years chanting mantra. But through yoga, through through one of our core practices is right livelihood, which is a very useful practice in the West, probably everywhere, but in the Western world, it's very, very, very important. If you go and sit in a cave in America, you're just gonna end up being homeless. It's like if the energy is too heavy. So my students practice right light with good, and they'll go from, you know, like working at Burger King, just getting by in life, to really developing very strong career. And then when they, and in the practice of developing a career, they gain personal power. They might not gain that inner heat. We don't practice that so much in our school, but in our school we definitely recognize when our personal power is stronger that our life is better. We have enough power to be happy and balanced in life. So this is something that we practice. We also, an enlightened person also practices balance. They come to balance. They come to the spiritual balance. And it might be, you know, that you're happy, and you can handle the difficulties that come up, and you just have an inner peace. And nothing can shake that peace. That's balance. And that comes from being able to be strong in the attention of the physical world and also strong in the attention of the spiritual world. Because if you're all spiritual attention and you're not balanced with the physical world, then you're spaced out and it doesn't work. You think you're all spiritual, but you're just an unbalanced person who has spiritual experiences that are not integrated into your awareness. And so then, you're just a spacer. You're a spaced-out freak. And it's very important. You know, Buddha was wondering about this. He was sitting under the tree, the Bodhi tree, and he was going into extremely high states of consciousness. And then he asked, is this extremely blissful, ecstatic state of consciousness, is this real? Or am I just on drugs? He did this mudra where he touched the ground in front of him, and he came to, we call that being grounded, he came to understand this is the real physical world. I'm grounded and balanced in the physical world and it's equally balanced with my high meditation and that's how he became enlightened. If he had just these high experiences of states of mind that were not integrated in a balanced way, that's as good as being on drugs. And it doesn't make your life better, even though it's some weird astral or experience or something. It makes your life more in balance. So balance, enlightened people always come to balance. we will work on our career, and our meditation practice, if we do it right, it makes us more powerful and balanced so that we do better in our career. Or we could say martial arts practice. If our meditation is strong, it makes us better in our martial arts practice. These are very grounded things and useful and constructive. Because if you see that your career is not going well, you have to fix your meditation. And then it brings you to a higher condition. These are markers of an enlightened one. An enlightened one refers to the Dharma, goes into the Dharma. They transcend karma. They work on things and become powerful and they become more balanced. Now there's different types of enlightenment. So there's, you know, the Buddha had four stages of enlightenment. He was like, well, the first enlightenment, he called it the stream winner. Then there's the second returner, non-returner, and then the arhant. So he said, okay, this is the first attainment. Once you become a stream-winner, then that's a kind of liberation, and then it will bring you completely to the highest level of enlightenment eventually. So this is the way Buddha described it. Now we describe it differently in our school. We have two kind of enlightenment focuses. One is called moksha and that's self-realization. The second one is called primary enlightenment or enlightenment prime. You can order it on Amazon. These are the first two liberations. Now enlightenment goes on and on and on. Buddha had four levels of enlightenment. We have multiple levels, but the first level to reach is either moksha or primary enlightenment. And you can kind of think of them as black belts. So if you're doing karate, once you get your black belt in karate, you're like, all right, I know karate. I'm, you know, I'm the legit product here. I am karate. But then there's the fifth degree black belt, and they're way better than you. But they also do the same techniques and everything, but it's all the same. It is karate, it's just that their mastery level is much higher. And then there's the 10th degree black belt. And the 10th degree black belt is just like, whoa, so much higher than the 1st degree black belt. So I like to think of enlightenment in these terms as black belts, as different ranks. And with enlightenment, whether you're a black belt or a fifth degree black belt, you're in the high country, you know, from a regular position of a normal person, it's kind of like looking up the Himalayan mountains. Like, you're down there looking up and you're like, yep, those are all big mountains. Oh, if you get to the tops of the mountains, they're all different sizes, right? There's that one, that one's bigger. But generally, they're all beautiful, powerful, big mountains. So that's what enlightenment is. You've been getting the first level of enlightenment. It's a very powerful, beautiful thing. Now there's also different ways to reach enlightenment. So classically, there's two ways. There's many others. But the classic ways are either through insight or through meditation. So there's either yana, the perfect discrimination discernment of the truth of reality. Once you see life you can look at anything and see eternity then you understand and can accept the truth you can ascertain the truth. The truth of life. And then you can also have enlightenment through meditation and through Samadhi. So in going into Samadhi, Samadhi brings you into really high states of consciousness and then you elevate and transcend the regular self view of things and then you connect with truth, then you have liberation. So there's those two different ways. Buddha said, Buddha had monks who became enlightened through insight and ones that became enlightened through samadhi. The ones who became enlightened through insight, he called them the red lotus recluse. And then the ones who became enlightened through meditation were the white lotus recluse. And then in California we've got this thing called the brown recluse. Not enlightenment. It's big spider. So anyway, but there's different ways. If you understand life and take it to heart and really just look at life and understand your mind, life and death. You can come to enlightenment through insight, knowledge, truth, discerning what is real and what is not real. And then otherwise you meditate, meditate and meditate. Because when you meditate you go into higher states of consciousness. It's a good way to transcend that barrier of self that blocks you from seeing truth. You go into Samadhi, high states of consciousness, and it's perfect awareness. So both ways. Then there's different expressions of enlightenment. So once you become enlightened, you might be, we call it enlightened city. It is your expression of enlightenment. So if you're enlightened, there's going to be some kind of an enlightened energy or an enlightened way about you. It's your expression, your kind of enlightened magic around you. And it might be something intense or it might just pure and simple and There's different ways so it might be that You're like, you know me like I'm a mystical master. For example, I can do powerful Transmission teachings I could take you into the desert and I can do all sorts of things that are quite magical and take a lot of mastery. And you'll say, wow, that's enlightenment. And that's the way that I am. That's my enlightened city. But that's not the only way. You can also be, there could be a thousand monks sitting there, one of them might be a fully enlightened master, and they're just all the same, just sitting there together. That's how it was with Buddha. There was one time where this monk from One area was coming to this famous Zen master's ashram. And he comes over and he says, oh wow, I'm a monk from over here, but I'm here to see, I wanna be here and learn from Master Hakuin. And when he goes through the gate, there's four monks and they're working on the pathway, putting down rocks and getting the pathway built properly. And they say, yeah, cool, want to help us with this? And he's like, yeah, sure. So he's helping them. And they're just talking about the Dharma, talking about the sutras. And one monk, you know, they're doing something, one monk's like, wow, you know, I had this insight from the sutra. And then they're like, oh, cool. And then another monk says, oh, I had this insight from a sutra? Another monk, I had this one. And then the guy who was visiting says, yeah, I wonder what Master Hakuin would say about that. And then the third monk repeats, this is what, you know, this is the insight. And he goes, yeah, that's cool, but what would Master Hakuin say? And then he's all, I am Master Hakuin. So Master Hakuin wasn't like sitting up in some ivory tower on silk pillows being fanned. He was just a monk, living with the other monks, doing what every monk would do. This happened a lot of times with Buddha. The monks who were high enlightened ones, you couldn't tell them apart from a regular monk. Everyone was very humble. Everyone just did the monk work. And there's no, you know, there's no grandeur. But then sometimes enlightenment expresses itself through your work. So there's the enlightened yogi. And that's someone who does their job as right livelihood and expresses enlightenment through right livelihood. So, a yogi will really work on being impeccable, excellent, strong and capable in their skills and their career. as a problem or as a hardship. They're always self-effacing. They're always letting go of self. They're always working hard or always trying to help everyone. They're practicing this yoga. It's an enlightened way. And they're wonderful to work with. They're good at what they do. They're a pleasure to work with. They're powerful. They're helpful. And that's the way of the yogi. So in my lineage, there was an enlightened woman named Mandala. And Mandala trained a lot of my students in yoga. And she's a yogi. So she's all about the work, all about enlightenment through work. And she's so strong. Powerful teachings come from her. Empowerments and transmissions come from her, but it's all about work. So many of my students were able to study with her, learn yoga from her, and see an expression of a, as a yogi's enlightened city. So, and then there's all sorts of things, like there's a enlightened woman named Yuan Miao, and she expresses enlightenment through singing, through music, so that's her way. Or there's another enlightened woman, Zahaja, she expresses enlightenment through her painting. So there can be all sorts of different ways that enlightened people show their enlightenment, their city. It could be, you know, you could be like a master, you could be a very humble monk, you can do music, you can do anything, you'll see a city, some way that enlightenment expresses them through them in their lives. The classic way is sitting there, just meditating. But there's even a lot in meditation. Then there's the great expression, the ultimate expression. So in the Bhagavad Gita, Krishna says, he shows Arjuna this enlightened Siddhi. So first of all, they just kind of, they know each other for a long time, they're good friends and everything. And he's just like, you know, buddy Krishna. And then finally he goes, look, this is important, we got to follow the Dharma, I'm going to show you my true self. And he goes, now this is my enlightened city. And he shows him infinity in every form. And Arjuna's like, whoa, that was big. So whether your city of Maybe it's the ultimate one, Krishna. Enlightenment is the thing. So enlightenment is where the self clinging to a limited definition, it relinquishes. And then there's eternity. And then your expression might be little or it might be big, but both self-relinquishing are enlightenment. So Buddha said, the Arhant is the same as me. So his enlightened students, he had 500 of them, he said, their enlightenment is the same as mine. But people saw that his city was so much bigger. He was like Krishna compared to just a quiet monk. And he said, that doesn't matter. It matters that they let go of the self. And that's the same thing, even though I might be a 10th grade black girl, that's the same thing I did. That's the essence of enlightenment. That's it. So whether it's big or small, enlightenment's good. And I really think of it, I have an analogy of the match and the sun. So if you're sitting in a dark room, you're always walking around bumping into things, you don't know what's going on, there's a book there, you And that's the unenlightened way. Enlightenment is you have a match and you light that match. Maybe you have a little candle. And that means that all of a sudden you can walk around without getting hurt. Things are illuminated so you know what's going on. You can read the book, get that information, and you can walk around and see things clearly. So that would be the first level of enlightenment. And then you got Buddha. And Buddha is the sun. There's a lot more illumination. You could read the book, you could walk around and not fall, but there's a lot more illumination. So, the important thing though is to light that candle. Because once you light that candle, then you won't fall anymore, you won't get hurt, won't stub your toe, and you'll be able to read the book. And you can do that in the sun. Yeah, the sun is nice and easy. And you see more. There's a book over there. But it's easier to see when you see more when there's sun. But enlightenment fun, but enlightenment is that illumination, having that candle. So, small is good, still works. Big, even better. All right, wonderful. And also, enlightenment is a gradual process. It does seem to come all of a sudden. You might meditate for 10 years and go, man, whoa, I saw something, like a really, enlightenment just happened. But really, every meditation brings you to a more enlightened state of mind. Every practice of compassion and mindfulness lets go of the self a little bit more and more. Every time that you work on the impeccability and selflessness of your career, right livelihood, you're elevated to a higher condition of balance. So you know ultimately enlightenment is kind of like the sunrise. The first moment that the Sun peeks up, you know, whoa there's a sign we can call that enlightenment and then slowly it rises up over the over the ocean and then you see it, the Sun, the full Sun. So enlightenment is that process. And enlightenment goes on and on. There's no end condition. It is an awakened way of being. So I'd like to give a transmission. It is a very fundamental transmission in this what's called the transmission of enlightenment And this is the experience of enlightenment the direct awareness of enlightenment So we do this by sitting up straight. We're going to meditate for one song You're gonna have a light focus on the third eye and look up here towards me and in this transmission. I Transmit the direct awareness of enlightenment through being enlightened, going into a samadhi, a pure state of consciousness, and by using kundalini, shakti energy, to transmit this pure refined enlightened energy. Okay, let's sit up nice and straight. That's it for one song, soft focus on the third eye. And let's begin.

0:52:04
♪♪ ♪♪ the the the Thank you. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the you So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Thank you.

0:56:15
All right, wonderful. So, this is an enlightened sangha. So it's a Sangha of Enlightenment. That means that there are enlightened students in this school. Not only is there an enlightened teacher, but enlightened students as well. So I have many enlightened students, and many more will be awakened. So this is what we call a living lineage. There's a lot of Buddhist lineages where you go to them and say, hey, is anyone enlightened at all? No. I mean, Buddha was. But there are some schools where there's an enlightened teacher and there's enlightened students. So this is really good because we have to recognize the enlightenment in each other. And that means that we actually hold a really, really high degree of respect and care for each other. Because the guy sitting next to you might be kind of enlightened. If the guy sitting next to you annoys you, it's like

0:58:43
or whatever you are, or the burping the whole time.

0:58:46
Burp, burp, burp.

0:58:47
You're like, what did you eat? Oh, I know what you ate. He just said that they're getting annoyed by someone. You have to say, this person may be enlightened. And then you should say, wow, I shouldn't get mad at people who are gonna become enlightened. And then you have more compassion and understanding and a bigger view. We accept the enlightenment within them. And we all understand that maybe we're not perfect. Maybe everyone around isn't perfect. Maybe they're not the ideal way. But there is enlightenment within them. So we have the utmost respect and care for each other. So there was this one Chinese Zen master, and he was telling his students, you have to respect each other. Everyone has to have respect for each other. I have the utmost respect for all of my students. For Shen, for Chu, and for the ugly one. Utmost respect. Just kidding. But we really have to respect each other, not judge each other. We have to see that even if someone's having a hard time, or even if they do something that you say is horrible and bad, that's something that's not who they really are is enlightened. And even if we've been studying for a while and a new person comes in and they don't know what to do, you know, they don't sit right, they get up and walk, talk, they do all the things wrong, we also treat even the beginners with great respect because if they come onto the pathway of enlightenment, then they're due a healthy amount of respect. Even if you've been here for 20 years, we see the Buddha nature in them, and we respect that. for 20 years, we see the Buddha nature in them, and we respect that. All right, everyone. Thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
