0:00:00
You So, So the the so So So so Oh, All right, wonderful.

0:04:49
So, last night I was meeting with the Indian Sangha. So after the equinox and solstice teachings, I meet with the Icelanders, Hungarian, French, the Germans, the Austrians, and the Indians. It does take a little time to meet with each group, to answer questions, to see where they're at, and it's a beautiful thing. Now last night with the Indian group was a big shift. A big shift because we're expanding the Buddha Dojo. And one of the things that we're doing is we are starting to make the Buddha Dojo, the focus up until now has been on the American marketing, but we're making it international. So working with Yogini, we're figuring out how to get European sanghas more into the

0:06:11
dojo.

0:06:12
But we're growing. So we have these really wonderful pushes, like these beautiful ideas of how to bring the teachings, how to grow them and a powerful way to do it. So working through the Buddha Dojo, Ra was able to really start this initiative of, I want to help India. It's so beautiful. And as this whole golden pyramid, this whole structure of beauty and light and wonder, working through is a way of sharing life, enlightened. So Ra talked about his experience and shared with the Indians his experience of the way. And the Indians are doing great, but Ra's experience, his teaching, his presence, his being, what he's done, what he's been through, is a powerful thing. And a wonderful thing is that he speaks the language, all language of South India and all language of North India, so like Canada and Hindi. And these are ways to make a connection to people. Because even in India, where English is a big thing, to hear the teachings in your language, your village language or whatever, So he's going to have to give a lot of teachings. And so actually I want to make this, last night's teaching, we've recorded it, I want to make it available to all Bodhgams and Shogams, and especially the Chinese teachers, because I need for you to see what direction Ra was showing. It's just a really bright showing of this structure, this system, what we're working on here. It's something that is good, something that has value. So Kenji and I would like you to see last night. And actually, maybe a night before, because I spoke with Ra before, and it's very bright. He was in his house in the beautiful tropical jungles here in South Dakota. So if you haven't been to Ra's house, it is a pilgrimage. So So, Ra lives in an amazing place and to go there, anyone who's been there has had an extremely high spiritual experience. And this is an outgrowth of Ra's play on nature, his play on dharma here. hurt is happening. The bra is a good thing. So we need to give a name to the place. Because here we have lots of Manas. But naming things, giving our places of power spiritual names is important. So probably you have to come up with a spiritual name for your place. It's a beautiful place. Alright, so, when I was meeting with the Indian students, I did a thing that I do for the Europeans and the Indians that I never did for Americans. I'd say, you can ask me a question. And if you ask me a question, I'll give you the dharma. For the American students, I'm usually very structured. You know how, so you guys are all Bodhams and Shodons. And all of the teachers say, well, I gave a little teaching and now I'm open for questions. I never do that. But I have to say this. If you're a Bodon and a Shodon, you have to have good etiquette. So if someone comes, even if they're ST1 or something and they do a crappy job, you should look into the essence of whatever they're doing, whatever they're teaching. Or, come on, some of them are magical. Savitri is tomorrow. So even if they do a bad job, or even if you're like, Tariq, I don't know what to say after you said so many cool things. You should, every single one of you should listen, accept, be there, and also come up with a question. So, the moment they say, and they don't say, I'm going to ask for questions at the end. They go, I'm going to meditate, I'll say a word. Okay, what questions right now? And I don't want dead space. Dead air. It's like TV. It's like the newscaster is like, there's nothing happening. What do I do?

0:14:31
I should blink.

0:14:32
Right?

0:14:33
So, we have to be a good ushigashi. And that means that you listen, you understand. And when someone is teaching something, you go, hmm, what is it inspiring in me? What's the highest idea that I could come up with and feel from their teaching? And then there should be many questions. Only good ones. But you have to take it to heart. This is a big thing. ST3s, seriously. Let me give you some gang signs. ST3s, you guys let me down when there's questions from these teachers who are helping the Sangha You know, you know the etiquette. Se4s, you should know the etiquette. Se5s, you should know the etiquette. You should give too many questions. Because it's so sad when someone's like, hey, what did you choose, stupid thing,

0:16:06
and then I'm like, no.

0:16:08
Right? And then, what are the questions? And you guys are all, no, I'm good. No, if they ask for a question, have a question ready. That's what advanced students should do. Or that's what people who don't know what health is going on to you. Beginners. So beginners are like, how does this work with my TV dinners and TikTok? I don't know.

0:16:39
Something like that, right?

0:16:40
But advanced students, you should have the best questions. So tomorrow Savitri is teaching. And are you going to... She's going to give a teaching and you're going to be like,

0:16:55
Wow!

0:16:57
And she'll say, do you have any questions? And you guys will be like, I'm blown away. I'm totally happy with this cool thing that you taught.

0:17:06
And then you have no input.

0:17:08
A big thing to the teachers is, I'm listening and I'm working on what you're telling me, so how can I ask an important question, not a self-question, an important question that will help everyone else. A question of compassion.

0:17:44
You're like,

0:17:48
Sivitri, that's really cool about your teachings of enlightenment and the highest Buddha Sattva ideal, but I have this rash of ideas. Can you give me an answer?" And she's like, yeah, you know, like put some yogurt on it or something. And that might help, but come on, ask the right questions. Even these teachings, don't leave them hanging. If they say, now I'd like to open up to questions, and you're like, no questions, you're a silent forest of quietness. You have to be so focused on their teaching and also like following it, like, what do I know? How do I understand it? How am I aware? And then you can ask the question that is alive. So the teaching last night with the Indian group, I think we should all see that in America.

0:19:41
And Hungary, for here.

0:19:43
See it?

0:19:44
This is very bright, very beautiful, very strong.

0:19:47
It just happens from time to time.

0:19:49
It's like, you're underwater!

0:19:53
Anyway, so, technical things come from that.

0:19:59
But it's OK. We have to see the brightest and the greatest wonder in what we are doing together. And I think that if you see the video recording of last night's Indian teaching for Bodhisattvas and Shurpas, it's really good. And for China and Taiwan and Hong Kong. This is important. the answers to the questions. And what Ra was showing,

0:21:14
it's very Indian, but it's something that speaks

0:21:18
to the heart of Americans

0:21:23
and Hungarians,

0:21:24
to all Sanghas.

0:21:27
And actually it shows

0:21:28
a very powerful way for the Chinese. In China there is a great dharma. We have great Chinese yogis, and not just ones who were born in China, not ones who speak Chinese. We have some Chinese yogis who are making China open to this beautiful light. The way is to see beyond karma, beyond karma, because karma is okay. Karma is the situation. If you have a body, that's karma. And if your body is broken, that's karma. If your body is healthy, that's karma. do as enlightened Buddhists, enlightened enlightenedists. Buddhism is just a classic conversation of some guy who lived way back a time ago. But enlightenment, we have to take karma and accept it. Accept it. Do you have bad karma? Do you have some angry thoughts? Do you have a pain in your back? So physical or emotional. If you have bad karma, acknowledge Acknowledge it, accept it. You can't lie about your condition, but in enlightenment you can transcend it. You can transcend, the best is to transcend bad thoughts, bad ideas, bad feelings, bad concepts. It's so important. If you have bad thoughts and your physical body is good, stop it. or you're unhealthy or have chronic pain, or you're dying—that's a karma. Whether you're just angry, sad, in pain or dying, you're going to All of these things are karma. Yet, we experience the karma, and we deal with it in a very powerful way. A way of strength. If you get your legs cut off, I don't care. You can still do computer programming. If you get into prison, you can still meditate. So whatever is difficult that happens to your life, there's still the pathway to enlightenment in any way. So if you have an excuse, you know, because me this, not an excuse. There's no cop out. There's no excuse. There's just direct awareness. So on this call, in this way, there's no way out. There's only the way to enlightenment. And there's a recognition of what is hard, what's difficult. Of course it's hard. It's karma. But karma is only the beginning of the structures of understanding. Karma is the beginning. I mean, you love karma and karma is real. And you have to fully accept karma into your heart. But as you work with it, how do you work with it?

0:27:06
Right?

0:27:07
Yeah, you have to say, karma affects me and karma is something that I need to finesse. You have to become savvy with karma. That's the plan and the way of an intermediate student. It's like, you know how to roll with karma. You become friends with karma. You know what's going on. So karma is an opening. It shows you a way to good karma, better karma. If it's bad karma, it's an opening.

0:28:12
Does it hurt?

0:28:14
Yeah. But if you have the enlightened perspective, any bad karma that you have created hurts, but it also opens your eyes to slap in the face. So there's no such thing as good karma and bad karma from that perspective. Both karmas wake you up. Karma's not going to show you the way out of self. Karma wakes you up. You have to accept karma. You have to accept the bad. Oh, what's the horribly bad karma that I've ever created for myself. Take it in. Think about bad relationships and bad things, bad ideas, bad thoughts, bad things you said to people.

0:29:34
Take it in. Take it into your heart as suffering.

0:29:40
Accept it.

0:29:44
But also accept it in the way of farsita.

0:29:49
Because if you did some crappy stuff, if you hurt someone, even though you think you're right and they're wrong. Whatever. Take in the situation So, when you have compassion,

0:30:25
give compassion for people

0:30:28
who give you a bother. And you also have a compassion for the difficulties just of the self. You're elevated. So I think compassion is the way. Who gave you a hard time? And are they horrible? Are they terrible people? Even if they were, even if they stabbed you with a knife, they're not a terrible person. Even if they kill you, they're not a terrible person. So, we have to have the highest value of compassion. And And this is what karma comes down to. We accept our karmas. Our karmas play out in our minds. And when we experience these things, the dharma is the thing that brings us through it. If you look at your mind, you look at your mind and there's so many things and you find light, and that light is what transcends karma.

0:32:29
So This is the way through.

0:32:35
This is the way through.

0:32:37
It's not that karma doesn't exist. Because karma exists. And does it hurt? Yeah, it hurts. But the path is the way through karma. Enlightenment is the way through karma. Enlightenment is the way. And karma is not bad. Karma is your friend. Suffering is your friend. Suffering is your ally. And it's not different from enlightenment. Both things have to be embraced. When you say, I'm mad. Someone hurt me. Someone did something bad to me. You need to make the best friend in your heart with that person. And if they're always at the odds with you, if they've harmed you and you've been wronged, you're in problem. But if you can see that the Brad,

0:34:05
and you are one.

0:34:08
It's a movie reference. But if you are one with your tormentor, the person who hurts you, then you're at one. You have peace. So take that, take that, the difficulty, the hardship, and be focused,

0:34:28
Okay, loads of cards coming in now.

0:34:33
So we're going to move on to our last meditation. It's going to be a meditation of the third eye. Sit nice and straight. sitting nice and straight so You're my love All right, wonderful.

0:35:09
So thank you very much and I would like to share the India teaching with all of you to understand that this is a way of growth of the Buddha Jojo and and to learn how we're going to build and grow in India and China. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
