0:00:00
Hello everyone.

0:00:06
So let's begin with meditation. We will sit for one song, focusing on the heart. Sit up nice and straight.

0:00:15
Let's begin.

0:00:16
the the the So So so so so so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you So so

0:01:52
Okay, today I'd like to talk about being a yogi. So a yogi is simply someone who practices enlightened practice. This is meditation, mindfulness, these different spiritual observations, and someone who practices that, but at a highly committed level. So a yogi is not someone who, you know, does a little bit, kind of tries. A yogi is someone who lives their life in spiritual practice. A yogi is someone who, through those practices, experiences higher and higher awareness. They experience greater expansion of consciousness. They experience higher attainment of wisdom. So by doing the enlightened practices, a yogi is someone who experiences nirvana. They experience the unity of existence, being one with all things. You know, being in the finite world, understanding understanding its limitation, but also being conscious, aware, and united with the infinite aspect of being, the active side of infinity. Now, I was looking back where I first heard about what a yogi is, and it's in the Rig Veda. So, the Vedas are these really, really ancient spiritual teachings in India. And in the Rig Veda, they describe a yogi has an uncommonly fine life. A yogi has mastered and transformed the contradictory forces of anger and desire, hate, greed, and joy and agony. And a yogi is someone who is a visible embodiment of accomplished spirituality. Now in our life, we want to be that. We want to have, we want to be able to master all of these difficult things and be very, very, very high. So this is the thing. In our school, we have a very strong focus on being a yogi because that's where things become much more elevated. Now in India, maybe a hundred years ago, there was this great enlightened master, the Hali Mahasaya. And he had a government job and he worked in this government job his whole life until retirement As an enlightened master working a government job. That's like, you know, someone working at the DMV and being a Buddha Right, so it's it's something that Is very very powerful See when you're a yogi, you can be in the finite world. And yet at the same time, you're in this eternal consciousness. So a lot of times you think of yogis, someone sitting in a cave, or, you know, I don't know, something like that. But no, a yogi, like, you know, like they can work in the world, work a government job your whole life. And in that experience, the Hila Mahasaya had radical power, enlightened states of consciousness in his government job. That's what a yogi does. So a yogi can be involved in the world, but is also, through that involvement in the finite, coming to spiritual consciousness. So, there were these five yogis sitting around meditating together. Then after a while, you know, they finished meditation, they noticed one of the yogis went missing. They're all, hey, where did Bob go? And then they're like, I don't know, he's gone, like got up and left. Then one guy says, should we go and look for him? Then the other one says, no, it's okay, he'll find himself. So yogis are self-reliant. They don't wait for some higher divine being to come down and help them out. They're not sitting there waiting for some guru to take a peacock feather and hit them on the third eye and make them go into Samadhi. They're not sitting around waiting for someone else to do it. They look into their own mind. They meditate deeply. They see life as it is. They look for the truth, the essential truth in life and being. And they find that within themselves.

0:11:17
So, you know that term,

0:11:20
we walk the walk and not just talk the talk. Yeah, that's what a yogi does. A yogi actually does something. So, there's so many spiritual people that just talk the talk, but a yogi walks the walk. And also my doctor said that's a really good way to lose weight. You're talking about it, you're all like talking about losing weight over a cheeseburger. Yeah, I'm gonna lose weight. You got to start walking, walk around the block, few times. So, no, but you got to walk the walk in spirituality. There's so many people who have spiritual concepts that they don't act upon. They just say, Oh yeah I read this in the Bible I heard this from a spiritual person. Some guru said that, you know, my rabbi said this, you know, and they have these ideas, but they don't live those ideas. They just have concepts and ideas. So you have to, as a yogi, you have this spiritual integrity where you learn the yogic observations And that makes it real. Yeah, so the bottom line is a yogi practices. A yogi does spiritual work. Having a concept, like if you read a spiritual book, hear some enlightened master say something, and then you'll just have concepts based on that. Unless you put it into action. So a yogi takes these lessons and experiences them in their lives. They put it into their work and they experience it. And then it's not just a concept once you experience it. And you say, Okay, so yogis work. And they work in beautiful ways. So, Doshan. Yeah, so I have a student Doshan. Doshan is from Tibetan Buddhism. So he's like PhD in Buddhism. So it's actually even higher than a PhD, because out of 100 people who joined that program, maybe one or two will actually get to that level, everybody else kind of washes out. So it's a very, very, very intense thing. And so he's this really high teacher. He knows so much. I mean, he knows everything about Tibetan Buddhism. But, you know, like in Bodhi Woods, he would, this is our mountain forest hermitage, in Bodhi Woods, he would do anything. He would do all sorts of chores. He would do maintenance and things like that. So he really would humble himself and do work. Now, a lot of Geshes, they just are smart. They just have massive education, but they might not be yogis. A lot of them are not yogis. They just are like super high university professors or something right the best professor. But he actually is one who humbles himself I mean like, that's what a yogi does humbles himself to do whatever work and now here in an under low and Hawaii. He's, he's here, and he's helping to remodel the things that need to be fixed and and rebuild. So that's what it, that's what a yogi does a yogi works. Now this, this guy is the highest level in Tibetan Buddhism, he knows way more than me. And then he's working physically. Right. And that's spiritual. And I see him smile all the time. He's very, very bright it's a very it's a very beautiful thing so that's what a yogi does he doesn't talk the talk because he actually doesn't talk that much he knows a lot but he doesn't like push it on people and uh but he walks the walk and that's that's that's the thing if you can walk the walk you're a yogi. People who talk, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.

0:16:29
It's like...

0:16:30
Most of Buddhists, when I hear them give discourses, they bore the hell out of me. Yeah, they do. I hear them talking the talk, and I'm just like, my goodness, it's so mental. It's not real. We end up coming up into concepts, right? And I'm like, oh, gosh. You know, if I came to Buddhism, so I started, I became a Buddhist monk when I was 19. But if I came to Buddhism and it was just blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, even it's the Buddha's teachings, but I hear the monks say it and I'm all, oh my god, it's so boring. It's boring and I would have quit immediately. I would have said, oh my goodness, this is not for me. But my teacher immediately taught me about yoga and then I was like, wow. So yoga is where all the spiritual stuff becomes fun, becomes active, the active side of infinity. It becomes that place where you are taking that ancient teaching of the Buddha and living it, acting it in your life, through your work. It's amazing. It's a great thing and an exciting thing. So, it's kind of like if you're going to university and you've got this, let's say you're into, you know, I don't know, you're going into a university you're studying, you know, ancient civilizations. So it's just going blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. But then you have this other archaeologist professor who's Indiana Jones. He lives a very different experience. It's not just theoretical. He goes out there to find the Holy Grail or something, right? Because there are all these adventures. That's what being a yogi is. So compared to just someone going blah, blah, blah, blah, you're all like dun, dun, dun, dun. It makes life magic, right? Yeah, so I teach my students yoga primarily in career and business. Now, most of my students have to have a job and they have to spend eight to 12 hours a day working or they have to have a business or something, right? They have to have a livelihood. So I teach my students yoga through career. And there's different meditations, different empowerments, different dimensions to understand, different observances, different types of mindfulness that you have to have in career. and this is the primer for understanding how to do, how to be a yogi. Because if you're a yogi, we are low battery, by the way, on the laptop. we're going to fix it. Job yoga is a book where you can learn the steps of how to do yoga in your career. And when you do yoga in your career, you're doing full-time yoga. So as I said, a yogi is someone don't, it's not that you do a little yoga here and there. It's that your life is yoga. So when you can make your career, your job, your business yoga, then you're a yogi because you're spending 8 to 10 hours a day practicing yoga. So that book is all about yoga. And the primary yoga that Krishna was teaching him was the yoga of action, do something, work. We call it Karma Yoga. That means the yoga of doing something. And he was talking to Arjuna about doing his job, doing his duty, his job. And he said, to do your job, to do yoga, you have to have a pure heart, and you have to have persistence. That's what a yogi has. So we have to understand this in our lives, and I want to to most modern people in this modern age. So let's talk about fear. Everyone has an idea of what fear is. Might be a horror movie, might be a guy walks into a library and he goes to the librarian, I'm looking for books on paranoia. And the librarian says in a very quiet whisper, they're right behind you.

0:23:17
Oh! It's not that. It's not that kind of fear.

0:23:20
Let me tell you the kind of fear that people come up to that prevents them from being a yogi. They have a fear of commitment. So, when Arjuna was facing his duty, his job as a warrior, that was his job, he just lost it and didn't want to. But Krishna said to him, have courage. So he's pointing out that he was afraid of something. So you have to have courage. You have to push past fear. And when you have, when you're an uncommitted practitioner, it's because you're afraid. It's not because you don't like it, it's because you're afraid. So, you know, you're like, oh, I kind of like this a little bit, but I haven't really committed. I'm challenging you and telling you, you're a fraidy cat. Yeah, it's true. If you can't commit to a discipline, then it's because you're afraid. And then that cuts down your personal power. And then you can't do it. I've seen it in martial arts a lot. Martial arts class, someone comes over and they're like, well, I'm kind of doing it. They're afraid of martial arts. If they could commit, you have to recognize what's going on. It's important. So, a therapist says, so, you have a phobia of marriage. Do you know what the symptoms are? I can't say that I do. Right? So you have to know, you have to know what's going on. You can't just be like, ah, I kind of don't feel like it. Why do you kind of don't feel like it? Because you're afraid. I'm telling you that. You can't commit because of fear. It's not that, it's weird, it plays out in your mind where you're like, I kinda want to like play video games more, blah, blah, blah, all this other stuff. I don't know if I'm really blah, blah, blah. I'm telling you it's because you're afraid and you need to look into that. You need to know what's I do.

0:26:22
Yeah, so fear of commitment.

0:26:27
But you have to really look at things. If you commit to something, you blow past that fear, and that's where power takes off. That's where you become super strong. But if you end up in the Bardo, in the wishy-washy, you know, muddy world of being uncommitted to anything in your life, then you're not living. You're letting fear stop you. You're letting fear stop you from powerful things. I think in martial arts, in spirituality, in career, you need to let go of that fear and push. If you have commitment, you push forward. You get a black belt, you get a strong career, you get like meditation, actually meditating.

0:27:24
You know, things happen.

0:27:26
Once you say, I am committed to this, 100%, this is what I do. And that's where I'm going to go. You gotta do it. You have to be committed, otherwise nothing happens. You've seen movies, right? There's a point where the hero says, I am gonna do this. And if you are like, well, it's sorta wanna, but not kind of, and then, uh, let me play video games. Then, let me go on. Right, then we go Okay, yeah All of that makes you weak. It's uncommitted You know, you don't get a black belt by being uncommitted never happens, right? You don't do great in anything if you're uncommitted. So you have to be committed and if you're a hundred percent and you practice Then something amazing happens. So you've got to draw a line in the sand. And then you have to, whatever happens, you have to deal with it. Now usually when you draw a line in the sand, it's like, if you cross this line, then I'm going to punch you, right? No, no, we draw a line in the sand behind us. Right, we do. And we say, I'm not going back from this. I'm only going forward. And this reminds me of a story in

0:28:50
Xuan Zi, The Art of War,

0:28:53
where this great general takes his army on ships over to attack the other army and then they land and then he burns down the boats and he says we're going forward and then they're like why are you burning down the boats you know like how are we going to get home and he's like if we win the battle if we win this fight then to rebuild and go home, but we can't retreat. We cannot retreat. That's drawing a line in the sand behind you. And that's what a yogi does. A yogi commits, and a yogi never gives up on sangha. We never give up on each other. You know, we might go through all sorts of crazy stuff. Someone has a really hard day. Someone acts poorly. Someone's unimpeccable. but we don't give up and we don't give up on each other and the dharma and enlightenment. And then Krishna's second teaching of what a yogi is, you have to have a pure heart. And I'm not talking cholesterol-free. I'm talking a pure heart. And that means that when you deal with people, you should have a pure heart. Don't be wicked. Like, really, like, be honest. Have integrity. Show light. Show love. have integrity, show light, show love, show what you've learned in Buddhism, compassion, and yoga, and power. Show that every time you're working with people. And when you're doing yoga, your life is yoga, if you practice yoga, if you're a

0:31:36
It's selflessness.

0:31:38
Selflessness. We constantly let go of the self. We constantly are self-effacing. We're humble. Like Doshin. We'll do anything that's necessary for our yoga, for our Sangha, and for enlightenment, whatever it is, even if it's the lowest task. The lowest task makes you spiritually the highest. So we do whatever selfless. We don't work for the fruits of our labor. We don't try to get some ROI out of things. We just work. We purely work for the sake of perfecting our work. And when we perfect our work, when we're impeccable in our work, whatever it is, it is elevating. That's where you refine the self. Now a big thing that I'd like to say is to have a pure heart you have to not be territorial. You have to be unattached. You can't be like, oh, this is mine, this is my pie. You can't have a slice of it. Really, you have to say, I'm open to everything. And it's a higher way. So this is a higher teaching. It's a higher way of being. To the ego, giving a slice of pie away means that you lose a slice of pie. But spiritually, everything is more blanket. I mean, more pie. Okay, so there was this time, there were elder students in my school, and this group of three yogis came up with some super amazing product idea and they thought through it they had a lot of experience in it and they were like yeah we can do this this could make millions and then they realized that they needed certain you know programmers and things like that. So they went out into the sangha and said, hey, you other yogis, come join us because this is gonna be awesome. And these other yogis said, wow, cool, we like this. It's a good energy and really cool thing. And it's a business and we can do it as yoga. And then the founders were like, hmm, we're gonna make so much money on this. And then, you know, that person who does that one job, they could make so much money, but that's too much for them. And so they were like, we should have more of the pie and give less to them. So they were negotiating. So they came up with the idea and then they negotiated down, down, down until they were really nickel and diming the other yogis. And then the other yogis were just like, this doesn't feel good, and so they quit. And then the project went nowhere. And then, after a little while, my teacher talked to the founders and said, you guys are being attached, territorial, you guys are being greedy. And then they were like, oh, okay. And then they re-engaged after a while, came back, and then they made a very successful company by being generous to everyone involved in helping your success. Not, I'll do a little bit until I get tired of it and then I stop. It's got to be, you know, that's where the self, that's where the heart is impure. So real simple dharma, generous to everyone who helps you in success. We need to enact that in our yoga. If you're holding back, if you have some attachment, if you have some greed, then your heart's not pure. And that's not a yogi. So everything that we do,

0:36:39
we

0:36:40
do pure heart. Another thing about pure heart is that when you have a pure heart, you don't have any stress. When you have a pure heart, you accept the present moment and you do your best in the present moment. People who have stress are worried about the future. So if you bring your mind in your work to what you have to do in the present moment, then you're balanced. But if you're worrying about the future, you have anxiety, you're like, oh my God, what's going to happen if I don't do this? If I don't do that, if I don't do all these things. If you do that, you're totally stressed out. Like an idiot. So, if you bring your mind to the present moment, you have all of your capabilities. You have all of your power to focus on what you have to focus on. And then you say, this is what I have to do now. Boom, boom, boom. You bring your best to it. But if you are stressed out, you're paralyzing yourself. And if you're sitting there going, well, if I don't do this and if I don't do that, if I don't get this done by this time, you're stressing yourself out for no reason. Be in the moment. So instead of worrying about what might happen, just have this disposition of, I will accept whatever happens. I'll be there for it. It's going to go through it, but I don't have to think about it. I'm doing now, be impeccable, and then what happens next, I'll do my best. If you live in the moment, you have no stress. Stress all comes from thinking ahead.

0:39:02
Oh my gosh!

0:39:04
So, if you're stressed out, stop thinking about what will happen if you don't do that. Just do the best with the task at hand. And I promise you it's going to work out, even in this crazy world. Now it comes down to persistence. Never give up. If you see something as a pathway of heart, don't give up. Follow it. It might seem impossible, you know, your teacher or your yoga lead might say, this is where we're going. And you're like, what? No way. That's impossible. But if you see that that's a place of power and heart, then, and if you're, you know, convinced to take chances in life, but you also have to persist. So many stories of the Silicon Valley success was they took a chance, but they took a chance 100% and they persisted and that's how they won. That's how you succeed. So once you see something, you go, hmm, that's something. It's something that seems powerful and something, it's a path of the heart. Then you do it and you don't stop. You never give up. And then you'll achieve it. And when hardships come up that block you, it's like, oh, this is really hard to deal with, you have to say, but I felt, I saw something that this is a path of heart. And then if something comes in your way, you say, well, how do I work through it? You don't just say, oh, I'm going to stop. Don't stop because of opposition. Don't stop because it's hard. Don't stop because it's painful. If it's a path of heart, don't stop, don't quit.

0:41:48
Push forward.

0:41:51
Figure it out. Get over that opposition. by being persistent, you will gain so much power by dealing with it. It's what you got to do. Now, I have this one student, she's from China and she really, really wanted to be here in America. She wanted to live in Bodhi Woods, our mountain forest hermitage, and she just really wanted that. That's what she wanted in her life. Now, in China, she was, you know, stuck in certain karmas. You know, she didn't have a way to, you know, an immigration route here. She didn't have a degree. Her parents didn't want her to come, all this stuff, right? But she wanted to. And so she kept learning tech from our tech school and she was learning and learning and learning, really working on it, also finishing her university degree, and I guess dealing with the parents. And she just worked on it. And she also would wake up at 4 in the morning to do these songs, Time Difference. And she just kept going, kept going, really meditating, mindfulness. And this is what yoga is, it's living your life, doing disciplines that bring you into higher states of attention. And she did this, and she persisted. And then she got her university degree, she learned tech, and she got a way to come over to be in America. And then she got a really... And then her parents also eventually accepted her, were happy for her because she got a really good job at a very prestigious Fortune 500 company. So she persisted. If you persist, you can do anything. You know, this is the thing about meditation. If you try meditation like once or twice, it's horrible. You're like, oh my gosh, I closed my eyes and I saw hell. Right? It happens with a lot of people. But if you can have a pure heart, unattached, and positive and selfless, and if you can persist in your practice, you're a yogi. And if you do that, then there's this beautiful thing that happens. You get this balance of when I do really good here, I do really good here. I push my business, my meditation gets better. I push my meditation, my business gets better. This is what happens. And this is what a yogi does. That's the game of the yogi. Meditate harder so that you can make more money. Make more money so that you can meditate better. It's true. This is the fun thing that you see. I remember there was this time, there was an older student of my teacher and he had a story that he told us. So he had this really, really, he was working on Wall Street, really high tech, he's a super, super, super technical guy. And he was trying to fix this big thing in some bank. And he was working really hard on it. It was really difficult. And he worked on it for weeks. It was trouble, it was costing the bank money, and they were totally pressuring him. And he was just struggling with it because it was so hard to figure out. And he was consumed with it for a few weeks. And then one day working, he was a super strong yogi, and he was 100% working overtime and super impeccably, and his whole mind was focused on this koan, which was a technical thing to solve. And then while he was working on it, he went into Samadhi, high spiritual state of yogic unity with all of eternity. And he had this amazing experience of being one with everything. And then after sitting After sitting there and going, whoa, after that enlightened experience, he looked at his code and he knew the answer. And in one hour, he fixed it. And then because it was such an important fix, it worked for the company he was developing it for. But he said, there's all these companies on Wall Street that need this. So he made a software product that solved that problem, and he sold it all over the world. He made a very, very, very successful business from that. So when we do yoga, we have powerful spiritual experience, and then it creates for us powerful career or business success. So this is why we do yoga. Now, yogis have a lot of heart. To be a yogi is to open your heart. It's opening your heart to be pure, unattached. It's opening your heart to being persistent, never giving up. Okay everyone, um, talking about being a yogi is an opening of the heart. And it is. It's like, you can say, well I'm kind of thinking and blah blah blah blah, but at some point if your heart opens, yourself. It's because you see enough light in the Dharma. You have to see it and then when you see it, it'll make you say, wow, okay, wonderful. Or like if you go to a karate class, what makes you commit to going all the way through to a black belt? It's because you see something, you see a power that you want. And in yoga, it's a matter of heart really, and you have to see it. So we're going to do the part of the yoga transmission. And I want you to focus on the third eye and look up here towards me. And I want you to see what yoga is. So sit up nice and straight. We're going to sit for one song, focusing on the third eye.

0:50:12
Let's begin. so you All right, very nice. So it's very important to walk the walk.

0:50:45
It's very important that you don't just listen to these words and don't do anything. You have to, you know, this is like martial arts instruction. You go to the dojo, the sensei goes, here's how you block an attack, and then you go, oh, interesting idea. If you don't work on it, then when someone tries to punch you, you get punched, right? That's what this is. This is a place where I teach you things that are actually real, that you have to actually do. And then when you see that you do it and it works, then you go, aha, and that's where wisdom is. But if you just, you know, listen a little bit and then don't do anything, then you don't learn anything. You learn very, very, very little. Everything that I talk about is what you have to apply. That's what a yogi does. A spiritual weirdo, which is like most spiritual people, listen to a talk and go, oh, that's interesting.

0:55:29
They don't do anything.

0:55:30
They read a book and go, oh, that's really interesting. And they don't do anything. So this is a place of practice. So, you got to do stuff. I remember I had a student who read the job yoga book and said, yeah, you know, it's okay. I've heard all of these spiritual concepts before. And so, it's no big deal to me. I'm like, okay, that's cool. Everything that I teach is not remarkable. It's all been done before. Every enlightened being that was before me probably said the same words, probably taught the same things. I'm not unique. Just like any karate dojo that you go to isn't unique. It's like, oh, they're not making up new karate, I hope. Let's do this technique! Okay, you know, so it's like at a karate dojo, it's an authentic school, then they do things that are the same as other masters, and then you can actually get that. I mean, this isn't just me making stuff up. I do what other masters have done. So anyway, the students are like, yeah, I read this in so many other books. And I thought, you know, yeah, I totally understand. And then the next thing that he did was contrary to the teaching of the book. He got a job. He had two offers. One was a stretch in terms of his technical skill. And the other one was easier. But he chose the easier one, but the one that was a stretch in his technical skills, it paid a lot more money. And there's this one teaching called cash flow equals energy flow, and it says don't do what you're comfortable with, do what pays the most money. And then that gets you out of your ego and just into following something that is powerful. So he's like, no, you know, I'm just gonna do what's comfortable for me. And I'm like, oh, you already knew all this stuff. You read it, you read all this stuff here and there, conceptually, but you're not living it. Because if he had followed that other job, he would have pushed himself beyond his current level of power and capability. He would have come up in his career, he would have more personal power, and he would have moved up as a yogi. But because of that, I think it was just fear and attachment. He was like, no, I'm just going to do what's easy for me. Don't do what's easy. Follow the teachings. When you follow the teachings, it's not easy. But if you practice them, then you become a strong yogi. Then everything that's hard becomes yoga. It means spiritual, like this raging fire of spirit instead of like, oh, I'm just shy away from things. This is what being a yogi is. It's taking on challenges. It's being fearless, it's having a pure heart, unattached, and it's persistent. It's being selfless and impeccable. And if you do that, you enter into a different league, a higher way of awareness and being. And it's beautiful and powerful. So I hope that you had a sense of the heart of the yogi and that you understand that that is essentially the place that you have to take your basic meditation and mindfulness practice to. Once you have an introduction to meditation and mindfulness, then you have to get into being a yogi. Otherwise, this is just ideas. Being a yogi is a way that you work through the teachings, you see it actually ideas. Being a yogi is a way that you work through the teachings, you see it actually in your life. That's how you gain personal power and wisdom. Thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
