0:00:00
Hello everybody. Welcome, welcome, welcome. Hey! Good to see you all. This is a wonderful day. So, today we have some opposition. You can come to the satsang if you can find the satsang. We're going to be somewhere on this beach. Two miles long. But you all found it so that's wonderful. Happy to see you all. Alright, we are going Beautiful teaching. The teaching on dreaming. Alright, so. So sit up nice and straight. And we're going to have a three song meditation.

0:00:54
First song on the navel.

0:00:56
Second song on the heart.

0:00:58
Third song on the third eye. So we're going to sit up nice and straight. And we're going to have a three song meditation.

0:01:04
First song on the navel. Second song on the heart. Third song on the third eye.

0:01:17
Let's begin.

0:01:18
the So, So the the So So, I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go So, I'm gonna go. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So So So So so the the the so so So, I'm going to go ahead and get my phone out of the way. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Oh So Wonderful. This is great. So, yesterday we were on the mountain, and then today they

0:07:07
closed down the mountain. So now we're here. I remember yesterday, I was expecting it to be this cold on the mountain. And then it's hot. And so today I was like, well, if we're going to the mountain again, I'm not going to break my jacket. Luckily, Kubera had a second jacket. But actually, now I'm too warm. So give me a second. Let me do my superhero change thing. Like Wonder Woman, just spin around.

0:15:03
Only I just take off my jacket. Huh.

0:15:06
It's beautiful to meditate with you. So it's actually kind of fortunate that we ended up down here because as I told you, I was going to teach about dreaming. And it just so happens to be that Stinson Beach is a very powerful, dreaming place. It's a place of power. And I know that you can't tell right now, because it's also a popular place for, you know, local people to come and tourists to come. And they make a lot of noise and their energy kind of overlays the magic of the place. But later on, when it gets darker, you can see it more. And if you ever want to practice dreaming yoga, there's a lot of little hotels here and if you really want to stay in an energy of dreaming and you want to practice dreaming, just spend the night in a hotel here. You'll notice. When we stay I don't know if you feel that this is wrong. Dreaming usually happens at night. But not always. I used to be a daydreamer when I was a kid, like you all.

0:17:17
Staring off into the sky.

0:17:18
We call that spacing out. So it's not a good thing. Yeah, so learning that dreaming is definitely different than spacing out. Spacing out is where your attention drops and you go into imaginary worlds and you're not really in touch with the physical world. That's not dreaming at all. So I hope that you have all been to my class on the beginning of dreaming, or you've watched it recently, or if you haven't, then please watch it. Because this is where we step into the second level of dream yoke. So dreams. When you enter into a dream, you enter into a different plane of existence. You enter into a different awareness. It's the funniest thing to me. Everyone thinks reality is so fixed and they go from like okay I'm here I'm awake and I'm all this stuff and then I go into a dream and then I was on a roller coaster and then a demon attacked me and then an angel came and then I flew through the sky and then I was in a submarine and then a fish was my best friend and then that's all normal and then I woke up and said it's a dream. It was just a dream. I mean, life has some humor Dreams are a different state of consciousness, a different awareness, a different reality. But it's real. When you're in a dream, what's happening to you. It's equally real to your spirit. It's just that it's a different dimension, a different awareness. And dreams are important to understand because we think that this is real, this world, you and everything about you, we think it's real. We're like, this is real. But awakening to liberation, awakening to enlightenment is as if having a bad dream and waking up and saying, oh my God, it was just a dream, thank goodness. You have those dreams? Where you crashed your car, your teeth fell out, something bad happened to your best friend, mother, father, you owed money. So you have those dreams where something karmic is happening to you that's bad, and then you wake up and you say, oh my god, it was just a dream. So enlightenment is waking up from a bad dream and realizing that it's not so So the dream plane is a very high place. It's a place where you can get out of your physical body into higher awareness where you can move much more quickly than the karmas of the physical. And you can learn amazing things about your spirit. It was written in Svetobuddhism that the first karmapa, the first karmapa, an enlightened Tibetan spiritual teacher, and there's a lineage of enlightened Tibetan spiritual teachers, but the first Karmapa, he became enlightened in a dream from dream yoga. In dreams you can move much more fluidly than in the physical. In dreams you can do amazing things that you can't find in this world or are hard to find. So dreaming has a power. So I'm teaching you about dreaming. This is what I call the second teaching of dreaming, the intermediate teaching. Even if you're a beginner, this is the intermediate teaching of dreaming. And we are also in a place of power. So, dreaming, even if you're, maybe you're not a Karmapa, and you don't become enlightened in your dreams. You can realize good benefits. And what you can learn in your dreams is how to have less suffering. So, who was bothered by night terrors, they call it. Every once in a while, she would have a bad dream, and it would make her feel horrible. And all the demons and fears and attachments of her life would come to her in that dream, and she would feel very bad. And then I taught her this teaching, this second intermediate teaching of dreams. And then the next time that she had a dream, she had a dream where a demon came to her. The demon was filled with all of the trouble of her youth, of her social conditions, and also of evil. It had every horrible expression of negativity for her life. And this demon came to rush towards her, she elevated into the sky and flew away. And she was free from that demon. She had many dreams of the same sorts of problems where she had so many pains so much difficulty but after these teachings she was able to fly away from that demon and be free and then she came back and she was empowered by that. She said, it's almost like martial arts. If you learn how to block a punch and how to knock someone down, it's a power. So in the dream she was able to fly away. It's powerful. It frees you from suffering. And these are martial arts is a power. Dreaming is magical and it opens up the way to the two primary cities, the two primary magical ways of powerful expression of enlightenment. The first is called the relative way of sitting and the second is called the absolute sitting. The relative sitting is something that we learn when we open our mind to dreams. Lila Rapa, great saint, great yogi, he first learned in dreams how to fly and how to go from universe to universe and do amazing things. And he said, wow, in my dreams I do miracles. And then he became known in the physical world for his simple Tibetan to be able to do amazing things. People saw him walking on air. People saw him flying through the sky. He learned that through dreams. Dreams are the gateway to magic. Dreams, if you can dream and see the magic in the dream, it opens up so much possibilities in your mind. So for this gal who had a demon oppressing her, a demon of all of her troubles and hardships, oppressing her. And when she was able to fly away from that demon, she was free. Free from her karmas. Free from all the negativity. Wouldn't that be good? If any time a horrible thing would happen to you, that you just lift up and fly away. It's a liberation. A liberation from suffering. From our problems. So, this is a good thing, dreaming. Dreaming brings you liberation. Now, the absolute city is where, it's not that you have kind of a control over the outside of things. It's that life doesn't have control over you. So, relative So relative sitting is where you start to be able to fly away from the demons in your

0:30:45
life.

0:30:46
You start to have some power, some strong agency, where you can do different things. You can shift and change your physical world. And even have, you know, the power of the great sit of masters. You just have personal power to make changes in your world so that you are not suffering. That's relative city. Absolute city is where whatever the world gives you, it doesn't subject you to suffering. Where you have a recognition in dreaming that anything can happen. You can have crazy dreams and you say I accept it and it's okay. And I have this absolute city where I have a power within myself that I've discovered through dreaming where all the slings and arrows of this world, they don't hurt me. I'm not under the control of the world. I'm not limited by the karmas of the world. My spirit is free. for a long time and I realized both relative and absolute city. So many times I will show relative city, sometimes in showing light, in showing different dimensions, lots of things. And that's my expression of enlightenment in the physical world. But also, I have absolute sitting where this physical world, while it might hurt a lot, it might might be very difficult. I don't have a self attached to that condition or pain or situation. I can experience pain 100% directly without ascribing it to a condition of karma. There's pain, just accept that there is pain. And when you don't have to be pushed down by all of the karmas of the world, and pushed into a self-concept that breathes suffering, then you are free, and that's what this power is. It's the freedom to be in the world and to be at a point where you could be struck down by lightning and you're okay with it. And it might hurt, but you're not afraid of the pain. And you're one with the world and one with the universe. And you're free. That's absolute truth. I've been practicing dream yoga. There's a lot of structures in our school for dream yoga. I learned dream yoga the same way I learned karate. by step, movement by movement, way by way to develop power and technique. And this is all really in what we call the second attention. But I do dream teaching. I'm such a strong dream yogi, I teach in dreams. It's a very powerful thing in our esoteric school to teach the dreams. It's very important because, you know, a third of your life is spent dreaming. So, you know, if you're a blind teacher, I don't want to waste a lot of time. I've got to use that time. And if you're in that dimension, I understand those dimensions. I've studied them. I've lived them.

0:35:50
I understand them.

0:35:52
Now, this is the funny thing. So I have students in Hungary, nine hours ahead. In India, I don't know, 12 hours behind. And they all say, Alistair Murray, I had an amazing dream with you. You taught me some amazing things. And when that was happening, I was like awake, walking around, talking to people. And also, the Hungarians are like, in the dreams, you speak perfect Hungarian. I'm like, yes, I do. This is the way of the dream. Dream yoga. So, dreaming doesn't mean that I'm asleep at the same time as you, and that I appear and we talk and we have a shared experience. When I teach dream yoga I'm teaching it in the second attention. It is profound spiritual dreaming. And that's why I can appear in many dreams of many students at the same time. And I could hear in students in India, in Hungary, in Hawaii, in California, at the same time. It's not limited. This is where I entered into the dream body. And I come from the second attention. You know, if you have like a best friend, you can have a dream with your best friend. It's a one to one connection and at the same time. But I'm beyond that level of dreaming. I'm in the second attention. And I express teachings. I express teachings from the second attention in dream dimensions. Because I know dream dimensions. But I know the second attention. So a lot of times people come over to me and say, I had the most amazing dream with you. And I say, cool, tell me about it. And they go, don't you know? And I say, sure. I mean in the second attention. Which means that, then they say, well, you know, there was a surfboard, and a shark, and a hamburger, and a hang glider, you know, they just go, oh, but ultimately, yeah, that's what it was. So, whenever I express teachings, you interpret them into, through symbolism. An energy will come in the second attention and then in the dream you'll say, oh this is a taco. Oh the taco is coming out for me or something. So you'll interpret the energy of the Dharma teachings in different ways. So one person might say it's a taco, another person might say it's a surfboard. But the whole dream will go to the same spiritual place of somewhere I was expressing in the second attention through the dreaming dimensions, letting go, detached. down the taco and it's free from the taco. That's what I'm talking about. So when people have streams with me, I say, tell me about it. They go, you don't know? I'm like, yeah, I know, but I want to hear your experience. Well, you know, there's a dream, surfing on a taco, and you know, whatever. They'll tell me some story, and I love to hear it and then I start to see their symbols. But as you should have learned from the first teaching, if you have a dream journal, if you have the intent to write down your dreams, you are halfway there to lucidity. You can say, I'm going to write it down. Wake up and write it down. If you don't do that, eh, I'll see what happens. But if you have the intent, it's all about intent. The intent to write down your dreams, then you're going to start bringing your awareness more towards what's happening in the dream. Then you'll start to see repetitive symbols. You'll start to understand what the symbols of your mind are. There's some things that are similar, but it's very particular to you. I could push an energy of compassion in a dream plane. person, it might be an office building, they had a certain experience, or another person might be their mother. So you have to know the symbols of your mind. You have to decode the symbols of your mind. And you can do that through dreaming. Meditation is best, but dreaming really, really helps figure out some weird stuff you got going on in there. If you write it down 100 nights, you will start to see patterns. You will start to understand the symbols of your mind and you will also start to understand where it comes from in a spiritual sense. So, intent is what's important. The ground level of any dreaming yoga is that you have to have the intent. If you don't have the intent, if you don't really want to do it, really want to figure it out, really want to be awake in a dream or something like that, It's never going to happen. It takes an extreme amount of intent. If you're like, well, I'll try a little bit, okay, that's nice. But if you really want to be a dream Yogi, it takes really strong intention. So I remember one time I was doing Dream Yoga, working on this intent thing. I didn't really know. It seemed kind of weird. I don't know. I kind of want to know what's going on in the room. And it was like super wishy-washy. And then one day I was in New York and I had a business meeting, a very important one, early in the morning. I had to wake up early. And my alarm clock broke. I had a watch, but not on a watch clock. That was before, you know, iPhone. And so, so I said, wow, you know, it's late, I'm very tired, but I need to wake up early. And I said, I just have to do it. And then since then, anytime I want to wake up at a certain time, I can set my intent and say, I need to wake up at 7 a.m. I always wake up one minute before that. You guys know what I mean? Yeah, I think you guys do. Because the world is demanding and you set your intent and you can do something weird. Like, get 4 hours sleep and wake up a minute before your alarm clock. You can do that in dreaming. You can say, I intend to wake up in a dream. If it's important, if it's as important as that business meaning, then you will do it. But if it's like, oh, I just want to turn it down, then you won't do it. You have to really, really mean it. And then it's not hard. It's as easy as waking up right before the alarm goes off. That's intent. And with that intention, to seek wisdom in the dream. Seek awakening in the dream. Like the Karmapa sought awakening in the dream. And when you do that, your regular dreams, if you don't do dream yoga, your regular dreams are crap. They're just 90% just regurgitations of your daily karma. And it's just garbage. It's a waste of time. And it's a lack of awareness. A lack of mindfulness. A lack of awakening. But if you direct your mind to be awake in your dream. You have that intention to be awake. Then dreams become the pathway to enlightenment. It goes from what they call a karma dream to a wisdom dream. You have that intent of awakening, your dream is a wisdom dream. So we follow the practices of dream yoga, of Milarapa. This is a lineage of Indian and Tibetan enlightenment and a dreaming practice that they taught. It has six steps. The first is aware dreaming. What we call in the West elusive dreaming. Aware dreaming. That means that when you fall asleep you are aware that you are dreaming. You wake up in the dream. And it is something that is very elusive to westerners. But it is not hard to do if you practice. So there's four ways to do lucid dreaming. And I'm going to give you the best way first and the second best way last. The best way is for you, if you are a devoted student of mine, I would say put on an 8 hour playlist of my dharma talks and just follow it. Because here is what you guys are used to. You are used to sitting up straight, focusing, listening So, if you put a Dharma talk of mine on, it doesn't have to be loud, it doesn't have to keep you awake, but you just have to be able to hear how I announce words. When you fall asleep, you're going to hear my words and it's going to wake you up. You're going to be like, oh wait, this is Samara talking, and what do we usually do? We sit up straight. Otherwise, it's going to be like the first day of the Buddha dojo, where I'm like, I know you guys are at home, but I know what you're doing. So I think that's the best way. Have a tone that just goes off every hour. Get an app that goes, every hour. So what you have to do is you have to get that app and it will make a noise. Or something, right? When you hear that noise in the waking, you listen for that noise and you say, Hmm, when I hear that noise in the waking, I want to look around, I want to make sure that everything's real. And you have to get in the habit of doing that in the waking. And then, when you fall asleep, you'll do a state check, as in the first sequence. And you'll see where you're at and say, is this real? And you'll say, well, it's not real. I'm in a dream. And then that's where you wake up in the dream. You become aware in the dream. Lucid dreaming is becoming aware that you're dreaming. And the third way is, I would get a ring or a bracelet and wear it on your left hand, but always take it off before you sleep. And if you have a ring, and this could be your dreaming ring, you wear it when you're awake, and you take it off when you're asleep. And then what will happen is, you're used to seeing it on when you're awake, and then when you're asleep, you will see that it's not, that you're not wearing it. And you'll say, why is that? There's a little bit of magic in this. It's not just that you're accustomed to wearing it, so you'll see it in your dream. It's because it is your dreaming ring. And you take it off every night before you go to sleep. And then when you see it in a dream, then all of a sudden, you say, so it clicks in your awareness. This is another. And the fourth way, which is probably the best way, it works really well. If you want to lucid dream, wake up, whatever your time that you usually wake up, set your alarm clock for two and a half hours before that. Wake up early, two and a half hours early. I know. And then, spend 15 minutes doing the basic practices. The red lotus, or just focus on the third eye. And then go to sleep again. And then I promise you, you're going to be much more aware of your dreams. And these are the ways to become awake in the dream. To become awake in the dream is very powerful. It leads to powerful abilities. It leads to power. Buddha when he first became enlightened people were like wow you look really amazing are you a god? And he was like no. And they were like well are you? And he was like what are you? And they said I'm awake. Awake is what enlightenment is. And awakening in the dream is enlightenment. The second step in Dharmaratha's zining is overcoming fear. So this is very important. You ever have a nightmare? Now what if you don't run? What if you don't close down? What if you face your fear and overcome? That's a very big thing to do. But it's easy if you set your intent to do it. So there was a story of the gal who was getting chased by her demons and she flew away. And she was like, I don't have to suffer. That's wonderful. The next level is face the demons. Face your nightmares. And you'll see, they can't hurt you. If you set your intent to face them, they can't hurt you. And there's no reason for fear. One of the practices before you have your nightmare is you're in a dream and you're lucid and aware and then you have to do something like go over to a fire and put your hand in the fire. Once you're lucid, you're aware in the dream. And you'll put your hand in the fire and say, you'll feel something at first, but you'll say, but it's not pain. And you'll say, it doesn't hurt. It's funny, because you actually feel pain in dreams. If someone throws a rock and it hits you, you go, ouch! You'll feel it. If you put your hand in the fire. Don't do it in real life. Make sure you're dreaming. You've got to know where you're at. So, but honestly, if you put your hand in the fire in the dream, at first it will seem like, ow, it hurts. But when you leave it there, you'll see a lot of harm. And then when you face your nightmares and your demons, it might seem at first scary, and it might seem like it hurts a little bit at first, but it doesn't harm you.

0:55:26
Very important.

0:55:27
I remember when I was learning intermediate, I was still a new student learning technology. And I was so afraid of becoming a computer programmer. I just got so much fear and opposition. I remember I had a dream where there was this giant monster and it was, to me it was the technology monster, the computer monster. It didn't look like a computer, it was just a big monster and it was a computer. And I was so afraid. And I was like, oh my God. But I said, I'm going to stand here and face this monster. And just by facing it, and it came over and growled and did all its horrible things to me. And then I stood there and faced it. And then eventually it fell like a sheet. And then there was this little thing moving around in it. And then I came over and I opened it up and it was a little like cute little computer hamster. And I was like, oh! I faced my fear. And I found out that there was nothing to fear. And that the thing that I thought was so scary was actually kind of cute. It's like one of those, like, guinea pigs. Cute little, pleasant, but frivolous. So, yeah, you have to face it here. The next step is a realization. When you're lucid dreaming, you're aware in your dream, you have to realize that the dream thing is completely transient. It's not real. We think this world is real. It's not real. We think that this is so real, that our lives are so real. You can't even hold on to a thought for like four or five seconds. You know, this world is completely transient. And the dream world is even more transient. So seeing that, because when you're in a dream you think it's real. You think it's as real as this. And then when you see the transience of the dream world, then you say, okay, it gives you perspective. So in a dream, when you're elusive and you're aware, look at the television. Pull out your smart phone. Look at it. You can't see, you can't make sense of anything. It all moves. You look at TV, everything shifts. You look at, I've done a lot of trying to code in, in, uh, dreams. And, um, you can figure out logical things, but if you visually look at your screen, it keeps shifting. Nothing is the same. You can't operate through visual consistency. Even if you look at a building, look at a building! Like, I'm in a drink, there's a building. If you look at it, it doesn't stay the same. It moves, it shifts, it goes bigger and smaller. There's no consistency. If you're in the flow, everything is like, oh, something's scary, oh, this happens. But when you are awake and you say, is this real? And say, let me look at my smart, let me read an e-mail. It's not going to happen. Let me send a text. I don't even know where to push the buttons. You will see that it is, everything is shifting, everything is changing. Now once you have this realization, there is a very powerful mudra that you must do. This is the mudra that Buddha called the witness. So when you see that everything is transient, buildings go up and down, that the TV doesn't make any sense, look at a clock, it doesn't work. Looking at a clock is a good thing. Because the clock, you will never be able to tell what time it is on a clock. But you can do. So then you sit down and with one hand you touch the ground. This is a dream mudra that is extremely powerful. Buddha did this sitting in this transient world. And he was enlightened, he was in the enlightened state of mind. When he touched the ground, he was able to create that balance in his mind. So to know the transience of dreams is important. You have to see that everything changes constantly. And then you have to touch the ground. When you do that mudra, you come into a power. A tremendous power in the dreams. Which leads you to the next step. The next step of Smila Rapa, Smila Rapa's dream yoga is change something. So once you have that realization of transience and the power from the mudra then you say, okay, well, here's a car. I'm going to take this car and I'm going to turn it into like one of those little tiny little toy cars. And you can just do that. You have control over the things, the objects that you come across in the dream. You have tremendous control. You can do anything you can imagine. Once you have that awareness that things are transient. Then you start to exercise, this is the thing, you have to exercise your will to change the things that you change yourself. Sometimes you do this very early. How many of you have ever been flying in your dreams? Isn't it the most wonderful thing? Do that. Change yourself.

1:02:42
Fly.

1:02:43
I used to fly a lot in my dreams, and then I became really into scuba diving. And I started scuba diving in my boots. So I wouldn't fly in the sky, I would fly in the ocean, like Aquaman. Which is pretty funny watching that movie. So, he's like, pshew! I'm like, wow! How's that happen? It's just magic. Yeah, so. But I, I, yeah, sometimes I would just be going through the water into amazing dimensions of Atlantis and all these wonderful dolphins and whales and amazing experiences. It's a powerful freedom when you can fly. Powerful freedom.

1:03:41
So this is the fifth stage.

1:03:43
A lot of people just come across this sometimes. And fly in their dreams. That means you really practice the dream build up before. So at this point, you have to say, I'm awake in my dream, and if I'm awake, then let me fly. If you fly, it feels so good, and so wonderful, and so amazing. There's an amazing liberation from flying, from changing yourself. You can transform yourself. You can do amazing things, but you have to change. You have to do something that is not physically possible in this physical world. And when you do that, there is an amazing library. Then we come to the last step. And that is... You go to God. So, if you are wearing your dream, if you've gone beyond your fears, faced your fears, if you realize that the dream state is very transient, so transient that you can use your will to make things and stuff in the dream thing change in size. You know, you could make one fish be a thousand fish. You could make a glass of wine be wine for all. You're starting to awaken to the powers in the dream. And then you can change yourself. You can fly. You can do anything. You can be anywhere. You can go through a mountain. You can be anywhere across the universe. When you see that, you say, I'm free. And so in the dream, instead of just living out fantasies, you seek the Dharma. So you go to that. I had a student who was very powerful in dream yoga. And he came to this place, very high place of lucid dreaming, very, very powerful, where he knew he was awake, he went beyond his fears, he was able to change everything. And then a beautiful woman showed up. The most beautiful woman in the universe that you could ever dream of. She shows up and then he looks at her and he really would like to go to Buddha. So all of a sudden he let go of that desire and he was sitting before Buddha. And Buddha was gold. And Buddha didn't say anything but the whole atmosphere was this atmosphere of light and love. And this amazing spiritual experience. That's what you do. Once you're awake, once you can let go of fear, once you know your powers, then you go to God. Or Buddha. Or me. I go to you guys a lot. I teach on the dream trip often. But you can come and find me. And if you find me, I'll be like, oh, okay. And what I'll do is I will teach profound, beautiful, spiritual teachings. And I'll be funny. And then I'll be adventurous. Those are the three things. That is my dream etiquette. If I ever come into your dream and it's really me, it will be spiritually high, funny, and adventurous. Some mixture of the three. If I come into, if you have a dream about me where I'm yelling at you, that's just you projecting. It's true. I have a very strict dream etiquette. I would never yell at someone in their dream. I'll do it in person. So this is very important. It's a wonderful thing. Now I would like to give you a beautiful and wonderful challenge. And this is a dream challenge. I want you to follow all of these steps of awakening in your dream. But I also want to give you something to motivate you. And this is called a dream money. Money means jewel. And this is a dream money. And this A dream Mani. Mani means Jewel. Jewel. It's the jewel of your mind. The jewel of enlightenment. It's the jewel of Dharma. It's a jewel of Dharma in the dream plane for you to find. So I invite you to quest for this depth of enlightenment. And if you have the intention to find it, you will be able to navigate the inner dream worlds and find this. And when you find it, it is a powerful liberation, a powerful awakening. I guarantee it. So I'd like you to follow all of the teachings of the dreams and I'd like you to set your intention to find this gem of awakening, this jewel of liberation in the dream. It's like all of a sudden there's a plot.

1:10:46
I can tell you about things, but then, oh, wait,

1:10:48
there's something to do.

1:10:49
There's something to do.

1:10:50
And if you do it, it's not hard to do. All these things are not hard to do. Maybe facing your fear. God, we've got to be brave. Maybe deciding to have some intent. You have to have some intention. But this brings you to really beautiful liberation of every step. Lucid dreaming itself is amazing. You're like, wow, I'm awake in my dream. And then overcoming your fears, and you're like, wow. And then realizing this world is, you can warp this world. It's transient. You can shift things and shift yourself and then go where you want to go. This is dream yoga. The pathway to enlightenment through dreaming and by finding this jewel of liberation, you can have a spiritual awakening, spiritual insight. And the first is Karmapa, great enlightened soul. He became enlightened through these same practices. So now, I'm going to give you a transmission. the transmission of dreamland. This is the intermediate level of dreamland. I'm sure this will sit for one song, Canyons of Light, and just sit quietly, soft focus on the third eye. This opens your mind. And it's a transmission of these dimensions, these wonderful, powerful dimensions of the yoga machine.

1:13:19
Let's see.

1:13:20
Open eye or closed?

1:13:22
Oh, you can do open eye or closed.

1:13:24
I don't need these. I still thought I was on the mountain.

1:13:28
You're welcome.

1:13:35
Technical problems. We could also sit in silence you guys. It's alright. Yeah. It's cute. Now they're turning really hard. Okay. Don't worry about it. We'll sit in silence. We always have to have some music malfunction. So we'll just sit in silence just for a few minutes. Sit up nice and straight, soft, focusing on the crude eye.

1:14:09
We can listen to the waves. I'm going to go ahead and get the camera.

1:14:39
You're welcome. Okay. All right. Very nice. That was beautiful. All right, so before we go, I would like the, uh, the, the It's a scary moment. Okay. Gondon is such a special place to be. Very, very, very strong. I mean, showdowns are okay too. But really, when you get to be showdown, then you have it made. Right, guys? It's easy. It's kind of like, you know, you're a black belt, so you know all the techniques.

1:17:15
You know, you go and work out with your sensei, who gives you a hard time. But, um, the Bodon is a very, very powerful movement, where you're going from beginning, going up to that point. You know, I've seen in lots of martial arts dojos, lots of people come, get a yellow belt, maybe an orange belt, and they go, yeah, I was really interested in karate, but, you know, after a while, after my yellow belt, I got the idea, it's a lot of work. They don't want to develop themselves. But when you're a Bodon, you're really in that midst of developing yourself. You're on that track for the black belt. So, Bodon is really, really a very special place. But if you're a beginner, that's cool, too. I just wanted to have a moment of honor and blessing for the doors. So I want to thank you all. It's so wonderful to be here with you. So happy to see you again. And I'll be back in early October. And the teachings will go on.

1:20:54
All right.

1:20:55
Thank you so much. I think I'll be doing some office hours while I still can. So if you have a one-on-one question for me, if you're in Bode Woods, then don't ask, because I'll be in Bode Woods in the next couple days. And we can talk down there. If anyone has questions, I'm happy to stay around

1:21:21
for a little while. for a little while. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
