0:00:00
Hello everyone and welcome to our April business yoga satsang on Dharma. I showed on in the Buddha Dojo school and some are asking me to start things off today. So we're going to start with meditation. We're going to focus on one song, focus on the heart, and go ahead and sit up nice and straight. And let's begin.

0:00:32
So So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone You're not alone So So All right, very nice. So Sambar asked me to talk about what I learned about self-realization through the practice

0:02:47
of sales and business yoga. So yoga is a process. It's a practice of using our experience to join with the highest truth. And yoga actually doesn't work unless we drop all the ideas that we have of the self that we think that we are. Well, the process of self-realization, it's the very same thing. It's the process of dropping a self. So you can think of yoga as a process of self-realization. So I thought it would be useful to share some experiences that I had in my process of yoga and how it helped me see more of who I really am,

0:06:29
and what I'm not.

0:06:29
So I've been a yogi for some time, and I mainly practiced sales yoga, though I've practiced many other types of yoga. I've practiced technology yoga, I was a technologist, a sales force architect, a highly skilled sales force architect. I was also a product manager and a project manager. I was a marketer. And I did all these things as yoga. So doing these things as yoga is kind of interesting. In our path, as you have come to probably know, we use our careers and we use business as a practice of yoga. So our everyday experience in business and our careers, we can actually use that for a process of self-realization. It's pretty cool. So I've had experience in many different roles as yoga. So actually it was very helpful to have this experience in these roles when I became the CEO of Apply, which was the company that we started from the ground up and took to a successful acquisition. So I got, but I mainly, even though I did these roles, I mainly did sales. And I actually did sales a little bit before the study and I was fairly okay at it, but it wasn't what I wanted to do. Especially when I first got into the study and I heard about the yoga of technology, I was really fired up about that. I wanted to build things. I wanted to be technical, whatever that means. And it was kind of ironic when Samvara instead asked me to do sales. He sold me on doing sales. Sambara is actually one of the best sales people I've ever met. And he, what he told me, or what really stuck with me, was that nothing in an organization happens without sales. And I really wanted to make things happen. So I started Sales Yoga in earnest. And then immediately, my blind spots came up and I failed at what I was doing over and over and over again. I was doing cold calls, I was going on business trips, meeting with customers, I was trying to sell this product that nobody had ever heard of, and I just kept on struggling with with it. And ultimately that yoga, the first yoga that me and some of my contemporary students who started the path at the same time that I did, we were all on this yoga. It's called Wanting. You might hear about it here and there. Ultimately that yoga did not succeed and the reason why it didn't succeed is because we didn't have enough sales and nothing happens without sales. So we, on that yoga, in all areas of the business, encountered tremendous hardship, and we faced a lot of difficulty. And, but we fought through it, and we learned a lot. And what we learned actually really helped us in the second yoga that I helped start with Parvati, Applety. So a couple years later, we got an opportunity to start another yoga. And Parvati and I had the idea to serve the Salesforce market. So we said, okay, we're really excited about this, but immediately we faced an issue. And the issue was how do we make this yoga successful? And how do we not make all the same mistakes that we made in our previous yoga? So it became very clear to us that we needed a motivation, we needed a mission, and we needed the right mission. And this is the first thing that I've learned about self-realization on the path of yoga, is that you never do it for yourself. The motivation is not to do it for yourself or to step up into your career or to do the things that you like to do. Even the things that you like to do, there's aspects of things that, there's things that you don't like to do and the things that you like to do. So it's kind of like a never-winning scenario if you play that game. But I would have never gone through the difficulty I did if I wasn't motivated by something greater. If I was just motivated about myself, I would have given up a long time ago. So I needed a motivation that was larger, that was more important. nothing less than the enlightenment for the greatest number of people possible. Small thing. And these were not just words. We really believe this and I can demonstrate it for a few aspects. So we've learned in our last yoga and we're practicing this in our career yoga, that if you put enlightened attention in software, that everyone who uses that software will benefit from it. They'll actually feel your enlightened experience through using that software, and somehow they'll become more free. So, you can actually look at the opposite of this. I'm sure we've all used really frustrating software programs like Microsoft Word. And you can only imagine the consternation that actually went into programming that software, where deciding what to do to sell it or how to take over the world with Microsoft Word, you know? You can feel that. You feel that frustration. So we wanted to do exactly the opposite of that. And I remember when I was coding a feature, I was one of the original architects on the product for AppBuddy. And I was coding a feature and I knew what the business problem was. I knew what the frustration was on the user side, for the people who are gonna be our customers, for who is going to be using this. I knew what their business problem was. And I deeply felt that pain and wanted to alleviate that pain in every second that I was coding that software, that I was coding that feature. So not only did, you know, you might've heard from coding that you actually kind of get, you feel a lot of light and you feel a lot of bliss when you start playing with the structures of computer programming, because them alone, those alone, those are really, really high structures. Well, I also felt this ecstasy from really practicing compassion for those who are going to be using the software. And time went by and I didn't even notice it. And this is how you can practice sales yoga just in computer programming while you're coding, is to really, really know who's going to use it

0:14:08
and what problems you're solving.

0:14:09
And every App Buddy yogi who is coding on our project practice sales and service yoga in this way. You know, I also credit my first six-figure deal, closing my first six-figure deal, prospecting it and closing it all like it was my sale. I credit that to the practice of Bodhicitta. So we had this customer, for those in the AfriD project, it was BCD Travel, and they were going through a tremendous amount of suffering in their process. They were just, it was agonizing, actually. And in every interaction that I had with them, I practiced taking and sending. I really, really listened to their problem. I really, really took it into my heart. And I figured out in my spirit, I was trying to figure out a way to transform that into light in every interaction and then to send that back and then to also send back a concrete solution that would solve their problem. And actually in the end they ended up not even needing us. They used our software for about a year or so but we actually helped them to really figure out the root of their problem. And the root of their problem turned out to be not even to use us over the long term. They paid us for what we, for what they did use from us, and I call that an even exchange. But the, I also call this a really good outcome, because in the end, it was about getting them out of suffering. So, then there's also the motivation for enlightenment for the Sangha, for the greatest amount of people in the Sangha, the people who are on the pathway to enlightenment. I remember when I was talking to Sambhara after our sixth failed acquisition attempt. It was the seventh So, that was a charm. And, you know, it was obviously we were kind of beaten down. And I asked him, I said, you know, if we have an opportunity to actually sell this to a financial buyer for like a lot less money, but we could actually get an exit and we could just, you know, have somewhat of a nice outcome, so what do you think? Or there might be the case that we actually don't get acquired at all. What would that mean for the advanced teachings?" He said, well, it might mean that some of you would get it, but just some. And then I thought, actually, it would be way brighter If everyone who was practicing at that time got it somehow. And I asked, how is that possible? And he said, get an acquisition with more money. Follow through, get that acquisition. That acquisition exists out there. You just gotta believe it and you gotta go for it. So not only I, but the whole team, we hunkered down and we kept going. And that motivation was enlightenment for the whole Sangha, because the more who have the advanced teachings, the better it is for everybody, the more it makes enlightenment possible for everybody. It takes a village to become enlightened, I guess you could say. And then there was also the motivation for my team,

0:18:05
for our team.

0:18:06
And I wasn't the only one who had these motivations, but I can talk to you from this experience. So we had to come together as a team to work on something that was not possible to do on our own. And to do that, we had to work together. And to work together effectively we not only had to overcome blind spots and karmas that we had individually, but actually very, very deep issues that everyone has. So how do men and women work together? How do men and men work together? I don't have personal experience with this, but how do women and women work together? And I can tell you that what Parvati and I figured out working together, it not only solved deep personal karmas for me, but I felt like it solved deep personal karmas or non-personal karmas, karmas that were beyond me that I was affected by. And this helped me in my meditation, and this helped me in my practice of yoga. It helped me see that I'm not these blind spots, and that they can fall away, and that they actually do just get in the way. And then we can just focus on work, and that's what we did.

0:19:40
So, you know, there were a lot of challenges that came up, right?

0:19:45
And a temptation when challenges come up could be, you know, because like basically what happens when these challenges come up is that all of our blind spots come up or basically our our limitations, right? So our limitations come up and you know you might not have experienced those things before but yoga is a really great exercise in dependent arising and it'll it'll bring that stuff up to the surface. And the answer is not to sweep that stuff under the carpet, or to dig one's heels into saying, no, this is my perspective, if I'm gonna dig my heels into my personal perspective. I've tried these things many times, and they never work, ever. So, another temptation might actually be to use impeccability and to you know really really just push through and Knock it down. It's almost a very American way to do it like you're my face. I'm gonna. I'm gonna take you down You know let's let's go after this thing and yes, there's actually a element of that that's necessary impeccability and good tone out is very necessary in the practice of yoga. If it's not there, you know, it doesn't work. Just like selflessness and selfless intention is a necessary foundation in the practice of yoga. But it's one tool in the tool bill and there are many tools that are necessary, which reminds me of a story. So So, there's this guy, right, and he goes to a restaurant. And he goes to a restaurant, he's eating alone, and then he sits down and he orders his meal. And the first thing that comes out is the soup. And the waiter brings him the soup, and then he says, waiter, taste the soup. He's like, well, the waiter says, why do you want me to taste the soup? Is something wrong with the soup? Is it not to your liking? Waiter, taste the soup. He said, I don't understand. Does it need more salt? Does it not taste right? Waiter, taste the soup. Really, I just don't get this. Is it too cold? I mean, I brought it right out. Waiter, taste the soup. Okay. So the waiter says, okay. He says, wait Wait a second, so where's your spoon? And the guy says, ah-ha!

0:22:29
Right?

0:22:30
So you've got to have the right tools.

0:22:31
You have to have the right tools for the job. And these things, you know, we have a whole tool belt at our disposal that we learn in the practice of yoga. So I want to talk about a few things that were effective for me. So the first thing is not giving up, not giving up and being consistent, consistently doing the work. So we had really tough challenges. I think one of the toughest challenges that you might have heard of this before, some people have. But we had this competitor, right? So we were first to market in our software. We had this competitor that came onto the scene and they copied us, just completely copied our software, no originality whatsoever, right? And then they started gradually nipping away at our sales. But we were just, okay, we're just gonna keep on focusing on what we're doing and we're just gonna keep on building better software. So we were in one of our acquisition attempts with a large financial player. And when you're in an acquisition process, you give them a lot of information. You give them customer lists, you give them financial information, stuff that's confidential, right? And then it turned out that this financial player turned around and stopped the acquisition process with us and immediately bought our competitor. Not only did they buy our competitor, they put over 70 million dollars into that competitor. So now we had a competitor that went from being pretty small and about our size to having over 70 million dollars behind them and that's a lot of money and you can do a lot of things with that money. In addition, they had all of our confidential information and while they say they weren't supposed to use it, we actually found that they started trying to poach our customers, trying to go after our customers one by one in the sales process with this whole sales team that they had just hired. So we were up against some really difficult challenges. And what we did is we showed up for work every day. We showed up for work every day with an attitude. You know, sometimes it was difficult, but deep down, or, you know, really the fundamental attitude that we had was that this is an impossible situation, but we're going to have a positive attitude and we're going to give it a go anyway. And why not? Let's give it a shot. Let's give it an honest Buddhist try, as we say.

0:25:21
Right?

0:25:23
And it also required me anyway to really look at myself, look at where I'd gone wrong, because I'd made some wrong turns. And, you know, and to show up for work every day was just an open attitude, to be open to what my teacher was telling me, what my team was telling me. In this situation, they were saying, hey, we can actually code these competitive features that they're winning on much faster. And I was kind of originally digging my heels in and saying, well, the vision of the software is this, but I let that go. I let that go because they had the better idea. And we were able to make progress in those features also while advancing the vision that we had for a very unique offering in the market. So our competitors promoted us here. It really got us to hone down and to change and do the right thing. But it required us to have this openness to show up every day, even if everything that we did before didn't work.

0:26:32
So, that was essential. That was essential.

0:26:36
Now, when you're facing challenges, it's really essential to also know what to do. You can come into work every day, but you gotta know what it is you're working on. How are we going to change? And change is essential, right? If you do the same thing as a saying in sales, or I think in business, do the same things, get the same results. And we needed different results. So, again, it wouldn't really benefit us to dig our heels into doing things a certain way. And actually, everything changes anyway, so it just makes more sense to change with it. So, in order to... but we had to see how to change. And in order to do that, we needed to gain a greater perspective. We needed to go higher. So yoga and business and sales, they're a lot about gaining perspective. So when you have a higher perspective or a greater perspective, you see that the little things in life, the stresses of life, that's not the whole picture. The surface of life is just the surface of life, and that there's something actually much greater. You know, it's kind of like with the ocean. The ocean waves kind of barrage the shore, right? And in that process, there's a lot of destruction. You know, ask the hermit crab, right? But if you zoom out a little bit, you see that it's actually a really, it's part of a bigger thing. And it's a beautiful process. And it's peaceful. And it's still. And that's greater perspective. So, to get that greater perspective, we practice spiritual seeing. And this is something that Sambara is an expert at, and he has shown us how to do this. So he shows us how to do this every time we're meditating with him. So there was a time early on in the study, there was an enlightened contemporary of Sambara to do a teaching. And this is way back. Wow. And she did this transmission where she said, okay, I want you to open your eyes and I'm going to do a transmission. And then she asked, what did you see? And people responded, and I didn't see anything. Right. And then she opened it up for questions later, and she, you know, I raised my hand and I had a question, I was like, how do you see? And she looked at me and she said, you see with your heart, you don't see with your eyes. And that's what you learn with Sampara. So seeing for me, you know, a lot of times we'll go out to places of power to go see where we can clear our minds, you know, get away from the mucky muck. You know, but you can also see in everyday life. You can see in the practice of yoga in everyday life. And the way that you see in the practice of yoga in everyday life is you get higher. We saw some stuff that we never saw before when we reached $1 million. And then when we reached $3 million, we saw even more stuff that we couldn't see at $1 million. And then there was $5 million. I think $5 million was like the most significant. That was actually telling us, showing us the stuff that we shouldn't do, more so. So, you, by pushing yourself higher, or by getting higher, you get greater perspective. But you also can get greater perspective in these places of power, going out, still in your mind, and letting go. Letting go and opening your heart. And this is the predominant experience of seeing for me. I'm also open to information that might come to me at that time. But the predominant experience is really letting go. Just a really quick story. It's kind of funny because actually I learned a lot about seeing in one experience that I had With some bar. He took me out to go get my sales ring. So we get these rings of power and We were doing sales on the first yoga and he took us to sent it took me to Santa Fe, New Mexico to get my sales ring we went to the meditation place to the place to go see my sales ring. And then I closed my eyes and then he said, okay, that's it, what'd you see? Because all of a sudden I saw stuff, but of course I second guessed it, wanted to think about it, but he stopped me right there and he said, no, what'd you see? And I told him, he said, that's it, let's go get it. And I learned a lot in that experience, that it wasn't about second-guessing and playing with it in my mind. You'll do that.

0:32:31
You'll do that.

0:32:32
But really, the predominant experience is opening my heart and letting go. So we were doing really well against our competitor. We affectionately called them Ass Face. You know, this came from the name Action Grids, so it was a progression to get there. And we had a tremendous amount of compassion when we came up with this name, actually. Really, really, we were coming from the right place. And we actually were doing well against them. We coded those competitive features. And we started winning more sales than we were losing. So, we were doing well. But we still had this objective, this goal to get acquired. Because getting acquired in this school means the advanced teachings. And the reason why it means the advanced teachings is because when you go through, again, when you go through the experiences of yoga that you need to go through to get acquired. You come to awarenesses that were not possible unless you went through that experience. And then this is where more advanced teachings are possible. This is where they come. This is where they just make sense. So, you know, we... And then, you know, for... When we were out there telling people, hey, we wanna get acquired, because when you go through a process, you have to tell people, you start a process and you start putting yourself out for sale. And when we were telling them that, they were like, hey, why do you wanna become acquired? Do you just want a big payout? Do you wanna just say you're tired? It's been 10 years. And I said, well, the biggest thing is that we found that in order for us to fulfill our mission, we need to align ourselves with a bigger force. And our mission, we didn't tell them this, but our mission was to spread enlightenment through software to the biggest amount of people that we possibly could. And we couldn't do that along with the resources we had. We had this competitor that had over $70 million. We had another competitor that actually had over $25 million in investment. So we were getting squeezed. But it wasn't just because we were in a difficult situation. We wanted to get it out, we had something, we had something of value, we wanted to get it out there more. So we had to see the way, right? We can't just go tit for tat with competitors to actually come up with something original that an acquirer is gonna find strategic. So we had to see the way. So there was one time where I went out to Mount Tama Pius in the San Francisco area. I went out there with the intent to see the way. I had the sense that it wasn't really me that was going there to see the way. I was just part of a larger effort, the company of AppBuddy, the yoga of AppBuddy. I was merely there just to get information and relay it back to everybody. So I opened my heart to the place, I stilled my mind, and then I saw light, and I saw the light of the way. You know, and it's kind of funny because when Sambara teaches us to see, sometimes he even says, well, even if you didn't see anything, you got it. And it's true because like what you do when you see is it's not so much again about the information that goes in your mind, it's about shifting one's awareness to a place where you can see. So that shift in awareness, you know, whether you see it right away or you see it later, time doesn't really matter at that point, but you shifted your awareness and then now you can see. So I was able to see the way, and then translate it to the rest of my team as a way forward for a new offering that would basically paint a bigger vision. And a bigger vision that would not only make us more valuable for our customers, because they were asking us, hey, what are you guys, what's next? But also make it more valuable for somebody who wanted to acquire a strategic plan.

0:36:56
So we got it, right?

0:36:57
And then we took a risk.

0:36:59
We took a risk with that because we,

0:37:01
you know, we didn't have many resources, but we took a risk. We spent hundreds of thousands, if not over millions, dollars building this thing and marketing this thing and selling this thing and putting efforts into this product. So it was a risk. And risks are very, very important on the pathway to enlightenment. You know, you gotta take risks. You gotta risk it to get the biscuit. I had to say that, I'm sorry.

0:37:30
Right? So you gotta take risks.

0:37:33
And this is because if you do the same things, you get the same results. The self wants to, is really, really concerned about who it is. And it does a whole bunch of things to validate who it is. And it looks at how well it does those things, it's validation for like, oh yeah, I'm good or whatever. So the self is really, really concerned about this. And we're trying to undo the self. So, at the beginning, when Sumbara asked me to do sales, and later on, when he said, okay, you're gonna be the CEO of this new company idea that you and Parvati have, it was a big risk. I didn't want to do it. If I would have known what being a CEO was, I would never have done it ever at all. It was a big risk and it was a huge responsibility. And like the immediate thing with both sales and CEO is like, I looked at these things and I was just like, oh my God, I'm not that. How could I say that I'm that? I'm totally, so I was just like, okay, fake it until I make it. My teacher said that this is the way to go. My teacher has never steered me wrong before. And so I'm going to give it the best shot I can. And then I struggled and struggled and struggled with it. And then all of a sudden, I noticed the successes that I had along the way and in both roles there was just like these moments where I clicked I'm a salesperson I'm a CEO you know I can trust myself now I can you know like cognitively I can say you know I I trust my judgment I have that experience but at some point even that got in the way too. So I just became the work. So there's a saying, a samurai saying I believe, where they say first there's you and the sword. Then there's only the sword, only the work. And then there's no you and no sword

0:40:03
So I became the company in

0:40:06
every one of my interactions You know the company was like a universe Right the company became a universe happa. D the yoga was a universe. There's so much to it So many wonderful things that we built so many wonderful things that we undid and wonderful things that we built, so many wonderful things that we undid. And I just became that.

0:40:26
It was always a part of me,

0:40:28
like every part of the company was part of me, and in my every interaction, that came through. Every part of the company came through in my every interaction in sales and in business. And it was kind of funny, we had a joke in App Buddy where we said, we were just like, who am I? We actually never really knew who we were. And it didn't really become evident or we couldn't really communicate it until the very end because that's when we came into our full potential. And then it was obvious. This universe was obvious. So, I think that if you talk to any successful yogi who's walked the path, you know, there you would see a lot of this becoming and unbecoming. They became and they unbecame a lot of things. But you also see a really positive can-do attitude that looks to impossible tasks. Getting acquired was an impossible task. It was seemingly impossible. Enlightenment, at least for me, it looks impossible. But there's this positive can-do attitude that we're going to get it done anyway. We're going to figure it out. You know, these yogis smile, you know, they put on a smile, they do the difficult work, they face challenges, they really, I'm sorry. They value enlightenment. They value what their And it's not really about enlightenment for myself or enlightenment for others, because in true enlightenment there's no self and there's no other. And this is what these yogis show you, and this is what they show me, and this is what this whole process of yoga is showing. So thank you very much. So, we're going to take a 10-minute break and then Samvar is going to come back and he's going to give the transmission for the day. So, thank you. Hello. Wonderful. So I'm going to give the transmission teaching for self-realization in work, career and business. So this transmission is all in the second attention, but there's a little bit of first attention that helps you to understand it, frames it. This explanation, the yogi's explanation, redefining work, career, and business. You know, our world has developed a certain way that business is. And it's very self-centered. Careers are for the self. Businesses are for people to get their way, push their power. It's kind of, you know, the way of the world. And that's the world's explanation for business. But the yogi's explanation is a completely different explanation. We explain business not in terms of the self, but in terms of eternity, in terms of spirit. So when most people, you ask most people, why do you do your job? Why do you work? And they'll say, well, I got to pay the bills. I got a house, I got the mortgage, putting the kids through college, all sorts of things. And those are fine, but they're all about the self or the finite experience of one's life. The yogi's explanation, yeah, the yogi might have a house and putting the kids through college and whatever. You need a new roof on the house, that kind of thing. But the yogi's explanation is, I do work, we all have jobs, we all build businesses or have a career or do something, and if you don't, Yeah, because it's good to. It's a yoga. I had a very, very, very wealthy student. Well, her parents were wealthy, and she didn't see any reason to do anything in her career, so she just hung out and did interesting things that she liked to do, traveled a lot and things like that. And I said, no, work. And then she said, why? It's not just for the money, it's for spiritual practice. And then she did yoga. She did, she worked for yoga. So it's not about, you know, most people have pressures of the world, where they have to go out and do something to pay for a house, an apartment, rent, food, electricity. But some people don't. But either way, work as yoga. And when you work as yoga, your work, your business, is the pathway to enlightenment. So the yogi's explanation doesn't have a definition of what you're doing. It actually comes from a place of why you're doing. So, when there's the yogi, the yogi is like, okay, yeah, I have a house, I have to pay the bills, I have to replace the roof, things like that. But that's not the most important thing. The most important thing is that when I'm working, I'm mindful, I'm developing my attention. I'm really connecting with my customer or my boss or my coworkers in a way of compassion. So there's a whole different way, a different paradigm of understanding how you use your time, attention, and action in work. And it makes all the difference. So when you do work in a kind of regular way, you're stuck in karma. You're stuck in, okay, I can do this, so I'll do this. And I'll struggle But when you do work with the yogi's explanation, then everything changes, everything's elevated immediately when you say, I'm going to do work for enlightenment. So tomorrow when I walk into my job, I mean, sit at home and zoom into my job or whatever, I'm going to do it for enlightenment. And when you have that intent, when you're doing that, that's why you're doing it, not just to pay the rent, not just because that's what you do. Get out of your karma and say, this is for enlightenment. Then you look at There's a great brightness there. So the yogi's explanation is a change, it's a shift from the world's view of yoga, I mean the work, to the yogi's view which is enlightenment and brightness. It's a happy, unlimited, bright way. So I remember, before becoming a Buddhist monk in the school, I had a few jobs. And I remember, I think it was the last job that I had, you know, I just did a few things I was trying to make a little bit of money, part-time work, in high school. And I was a waiter. I was a really bad waiter. I mean, I dropped food all the time, and on the customers.

0:51:53
I'm all, oops.

0:51:55
I don't know why.

0:51:56
I was bad.

0:51:57
But anyway, it's weird, because I was a really good martial artist, but I couldn't hold a plate of pasta. So I really did, I looked at the state of mind of what I was doing. I was just doing something for whatever reason. I was like, I need to make some money. And so if I can make some money, then I can do this and I can do this. It was about me making money. And so I did these part-time jobs to do it. And I did them pretty poorly. Then when I was 19 and I joined this school and I started learning about job yoga, I went into computer programming, which is a great act of selflessness on my part. And I developed my career in computer programming and built a business with IT consulting. And I developed this whole career and this whole practicing yoga with the yogi's explanation. I didn't do it for myself, I didn't do it for money, I didn't do it for Porsches or Ferraris, wink, right? I did it. I did it for yoga. I did it for enlightenment. And so my whole professional career was a career as a yogi, the yogi's explanation, where it was all for spiritual development. It was a business I would never want to go into. I was doing a lot of self-censorship and Tai Chi. Then I found myself on Wall Street doing computer programming and IT service sales. So it was very different than what I would prefer. So selflessness is key. Selflessness is key. So if you have career paths that you're not going to change, that you've been in for a long time, selflessness is key. Because if you have an attachment to an idea of who you are and what you're doing, you're very, very stuck. So if you have a career path, a job that you're working on for a long time, you need to start seeing new opportunities, new ideas, new ways. Because if it's all, yeah, I do it like this all the time. It all, yep, mm-hmm, I'm great at what I do. You're stuck. You just, you don't have a challenge in your career. So, you gotta be open, you have to open your mind. You have to be big-hearted, you have to open your heart. Sometimes when you really think about your customers and co-workers and their condition, what they're going through, then you start to say, I see another dimension of what I'm doing to The yogi's explanation is a way of seeing bigger, greater dimensions in our work. Our work is the pathway to enlightenment and our work is a way where we develop our mind, our character. We develop a very strong attention and we use it for the highest dharma, for the greatest good, to help people, to bring liberation from suffering. So most people in the world are suffering. And anything that you can do in your work, think about your job. What is your job? What is your business? If it is something that connects to other people, unless you're like a day trader. No, actually, if you're a day trader, yeah, you can affect the stock market. No, but any people, co-workers, customers, managers, everyone that you work with, you can affect them with this enlightened energy.

0:57:04
You can have a positive effect.

0:57:08
This is our intent. So the yogi's explanation is directing the intent away from the intent of self and the intent of the world and the way that things work in the world to a completely new place, a place of enlightenment.

0:57:38
You change your intent for your work.

0:57:42
I'm not working just for putting food on the table, bringing home the bacon, scrambling the eggs, and putting a roof on the house, you know, whatever, paying rent, right? No. We're not just working for those physical things. If you work with the intent of the yogi, you have to just actually kind of abandon those limited ideas. And when you abandon those limited ideas, you reach great heights spiritually. You're like free of those things. Because if you're all about just the small stuff, you're locked into it. So if you're like, all I want is money and food, I don't know, whatever, then you're stuck in those things. That's the finite experience. But what we do is we go into a heightened experience.

0:58:53
A heightened experience of work.

0:58:55
I don't care if you're a janitor cleaning toilets, if you're at McDonald's flipping burgers. If you do this, it elevates you spiritually. And then the great thing is that if you're elevated spiritually, you're going to rise, no matter what. You know, in India, they have a beautiful tradition of understanding that yoga is a science. or a wish, or a dream, or a maybe. If you do yoga, it works. Now, yoga is a little different than the self-understanding. A big part of yoga is to be selfless. So, how do I do this thing? Like it's a very structured path. But it's a structured path that brings you into selflessness. And at first you might say, I don't like selflessness. I like stuff for me. But little by little through doing yoga, you start to understand that having a higher aspiration to help someone else, to get along with your co-worker, to really help your customer, you start to see that that is the thing that helps you. That's the thing that makes you happy. Now, not everybody starts off this way. Everybody starts off with, I'm gonna push a lot of energy and attention into doing something and I only get $14.95 an hour?

1:00:53
Wow, that's amazing.

1:00:55
I think that's the minimum wage in California. And I remember when I was in New York working as a waiter for $4.23 an hour. And I did it as yoga. I worked at Pizza Hut and Friendly's for the East Coasters, which is like Denny's for the West Coasters. And no, I had to work, but I did it all, that whole transition, even the time where I was a student, I did it all. I did it all. I did it all. I did it all. I did it all, that whole transition, even the time where I was a waiter and a pizza maker, I did it all in yoga. I got fired from doing my pizza. They were like, you're putting too much pepperoni on the pizza. I'm like, but that's what people want. And they're like, but you're costing us money. I'm like, people want it. They're all, get out of here. I'm like, alright. That was my New York pizza career. Didn't work out so well. Alright, so the yogi's explanation is a very, very beautiful way of looking at work. No matter what work you do, you can bring a higher, happier vibration to it.

1:02:45
And it's not about you.

1:02:46
This is the big thing.

1:02:47
It's not about you. It's not about you and what you get out of it. That's the reciprocity of karma. I'll do this for an hour and I get this much money. And then I can take that money and I can do these things. I mean, that's the way of the world. And you'll get a lot of that, you'll gain a lot. But the most important thing to you is your mind, your focus, mind. Your mind becoming more impeccable, you being more compassionate and selfless. That is the thing that makes you higher, brighter, stronger.

1:03:39
So, a lot of things that people face in work is pain.

1:03:44
It's difficult because I have a mean co-worker or my customers are always angry. You should be lucky to go to one of those companies. Like if you worked at the DMV, you're like, I work at the DMV. Everyone comes in angry, bothered, right? So this is something. If you've been to the Department of Motor Vehicles, it's usually a long line in a horrible place and poor service. So as a customer, that's probably the worst customer experience ever. Okay, now, that's the customer side. We all have been those customers.

1:04:36
So, we're like, oh my gosh, I gotta go to the motor vehicles and get a registration, it's gonna be terrible. Which it is. Now, imagine that you're working there. Those poor people are put into a horrible corporate structure that makes everybody unhappy. Now, imagine you're there working

1:05:01
and you have to be happy

1:05:05
and bright and strong.

1:05:08
You have to help everyone and you can uplift the whole experience. It's true. You can totally transform, even though you're put in a big messed up condition, a big horrible situation, you can make it happy and you can make it strong and bright. That's yoga.

1:05:32
You know?

1:05:33
No, that's what you do with yoga. You know, Aphrodite was put into this crazy world of lots of, you know, these tech egos pushing around and powerful tech egos. And they were a successful Silicon Valley tech company because they didn't get caught up in the ego because there's a lot of tech companies that are successful and have no enlightenment but had the yogi's explanation.

1:06:20
A definition,

1:06:21
the way that they worked, the operations, the modus operandi, the way that they did things was all from yoga. Yoga, yoga, yoga. Impeccability and selflessness. And you can do it. In your work, be impeccable. In your work, be selfless. In your work, realize that everything that you do in your job, no matter what your job is, is something that can elevate your consciousness. And this is not just like a really high like, oh, this is a good idea. Like think that your work is a high consciousness thing, right? Whatever. No, this is the thing where we have many students who have developed their whole careers and very strong careers from this practice. And we have yoga that were drawn together. And they were, I'm working at Apple and Google, and also I start another company. So they hit that strong level of personal career development. And then we say, now what you, now more, do more.

1:08:20
What can you do? You can do more.

1:08:22
And we can build these amazing companies. So like AppBuddy and ZenCloud, these are companies that were built, bootstrapped on the side in the garage, you know. In Bodewoods, it was in the middle of the redwood trees. That's where Parvati and Dharma started this. They're like, hey, in the middle of the redwood trees, let's start this thing. So, this is the explanation of the yogi. It's a different view, a different way, than the way of the world. The way of the world is the worst, lowest reciprocity of experience. You know, it's like the lowest, like you want me to do that work for you, I don't wanna do it, and it'll cost you this much. Bad vibration. But you can do it really great every way. Like even if you're like a plumber. Something's broken? It's your toilet? There's a whole bunch of crap in it?

1:09:45
I'm happy to fix it.

1:09:46
Because I have compassion for you. No, really.

1:09:50
That's where we need to come from. So the yogi's explanation flips it all around. It's not the way of the world. Come on, it's not the way of the world. It's the way of the yogi. The pathway to enlightenment, the job that you have if you're a janitor, a a plumber or anything. There's no hierarchy of good and bad. You can work at McDonald's, whatever. If you become a yogi, you will do a beautiful service for the people that you're serving and your co-workers and your manager and you will bring a higher energy. If there was a yogi at McDonald's I would go to McDonald's. How many things can I order from that one yogi? I'll eat it. It's true. A yogi makes good energy in whatever they serve. Alright, so we're going to do the transmission. I just wanted to give you a little bit of an understanding of what this is. It's not a what we do, it's a why we do. down to our intent and from an intention for enlightenment we have an amazing experience it transcends the karmas of the physical world so I'd like you to third eye and we'll sit for one song and this is the transmission of self-realization in work, career, and business. Very important one. So, relax. Let's begin.

1:12:22
figure out.

1:12:24
so so So so Thank you. so you All right, wonderful.

1:16:54
So the transmission of the job yogi, business yogi, is a beautiful thing. If you have a business, it's something that elevates you inwardly, in your heart of hearts, to an awareness that you're in school, your education, onto the pathway to enlightenment. Everything transforms from I want, I want, I want, I do, I do, for me, for me, for me, too, for others. And not, I want, but enlightenment. This brings peace. There are so many people who succeed in business and in their careers that are not happy. They're stressed out. This brings peace and happiness and balance in your work. And all the difficulties of the work, it's taken as not, oh my gosh, it's just hard, I don't like it. It's taken as a lesson, as if Buddha was teaching you and you learn from it. So you gain a great peace in your work with the yogi's explanation. This transmission is a life-changing practice. And it's something that we do over and over. Once you learn it, you hear it, you understand it, then there's a whole practice of doing it again and again in every aspect of your business and all it does is make things better. So you have the yogi's explanation and use it well. So you have the yogi's explanation and use it well.

1:19:48
Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
