0:00:00
Hello everyone.

0:00:05
All right, welcome. We're going to begin with meditation. We're going to sit for one song. I'm going to focus on the heart. Sit nice and straight.

0:00:17
And let's begin.

0:00:18
the the the So So So so so you So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Alright, so we had a really, really beautiful desert trip, solstice trip. And I just want to share with you, all of you, kind of a recapitulation

0:04:34
of things. And essentially, recapitulation is that I'm back from my retreat. On my retreat a higher way of dharma. It is an aspect of the school that's kind of the esoteric teachings, the inner teachings, the Vajrayana aspect of the school. And in this way, I'm able to work with my Shadons and my Arhants, who are very powerful and advanced and can do the mystical teachings, then I'm kind of freed up to do these more inner teachings. So this is the way that we were working together on this trip. I was able to work on what I call the Maha Mandala, the structures of the inner teachings. And then my Shodans were able to do mystical teachings. And these are teachings with transmissions and empowerments, connections to the place of power that we were in, the time of power that we were able to work in a way where this, you know, I would create this mandala of the teachings and they were able to work within this sharing powerful mystical teachings. all these important aspects of yoga and all of these important aspects of sharing the way. Teaching, sharing the way, the Sangha, yoga, what yoga is, the challenges in yoga, the teachings of yoga, the feelings of success in yoga. Very, very powerful teachings. And we had many Shodan's teachings and everything was a teaching within this mandala, within this circle, where things were balanced and powerful. And all together, you know, mandala is a circle with lots of different things, but it's all one meaning, one expression of Dharma. So this is what we experienced. And for me, coming back from my retreat, this is a really beautiful experience. I really enjoyed it. And yesterday was Father's Day. So I hope you called your father. I told everybody in the desert, you've got to call your father. You know, everyone's all, call your mother, but also call your father on Father's Day. And if you missed it, then call him today. And I told some silly jokes about Father's Day, especially. Anyway, you know, we had a beautiful, powerful experience out there in the desert. And this is a new way that we're working together through elevating the Shodons to the teachings of mysticism. they're able to do the transmissions and the empowerments and the initiations. These are the power aspect of the study. And then I'm focused on a higher thing, which is the structure. So this kind of reminds me of a time where I was in this school of karate, Japanese Shotokan karate, and there was a lot of dojos that were in the association, and then the head teacher was from Japan, and we had this one time where all the dojos in the country got together, and then the head teacher from Japan, Takahashi, he comes to this. And there's like a black belt, you know, teaching. People are getting their first degree, second degree, third degree, you know, black belts. And so there's this big test. And everyone's, you know, kind of preparing for the test, going through some lessons and everything. And everybody's getting ready and stuff, and then when Takahashi enters the room, all of a sudden everyone gets more focused. I noticed everybody got stronger, more focused. And Takahashi is kind of, for that lineage of karate, he's the holder of the mandala. He's the one who holds the structure and then everybody who's in it benefits from that. And then all of the black belts, you know, like let's say the senseis who are fifth degree black belts. They're like they're teaching and they're, you know, doing most of the practices and they're also helping people to get to their first degree of black blood, they're doing the actual testing and all that stuff. And Takahashi is just there. He doesn't say very much. They're doing all the work because they've developed to that point where they can do all that work. And then Takahashi, you know, once in a while we'd get up and he would talk about something deeper. So they were like, working on kata, kata, kata, form, form, form, you know, and then Takahashi would be like, hey, you know what? Just here's one little thing about how to have deeper concentration, deeper focus, how to get more power. So he had like deeper insights. Now, this is the thing. When the showdowns of the school, the black belts, the advanced students of the school are strong enough, then the master of the school doesn't have to do all those small things. They can focus on what they're strong at, which is the deeper aspects of the school. So, we have very strong shodans. It reminds me also of, there's a time in Chinatown, San Francisco, where Bruce Lee was going around, he was going around challenging the masters of the Kung Fu schools. And he was like, I want to test my skills against you. And he came to my old Kung Fu system, Choi Le Foot Kung Fu. And we had this great grandmaster who was really, really famous in our system. His name was Lao Bun. And so Bruce Lee walks into the Choi Le Foot Kung Fu School. And he's like, Lao Ban, I challenge you. And then Lao Ban has like, you know, these like dozen senior students. And he's all, if you can beat one of my senior students, then I'll fight you. He's like, just choose one. So Bruce Lee's like, okay, I'll choose this one. He chooses one, and the guy just beats Bruce Lee. And then he's like, okay, that guy was too strong. I'll choose another one, and that guy just beats Bruce Lee. And then Bruce Lee's like, okay, I get the picture. And Laub ends up, yeah, you don't even need to, you know.

0:13:04
This.

0:13:05
So this is a very powerful thing that in our school, the advanced students, the Shodhans and the Arhans, are very, very strong. They're very, very strong in their yoga, very strong in their meditation, strong in insight, very capable of teaching, and very strong in the things that I used to be the only one to do, which was transmissions, empowerments, initiations, all of these aspects of the school that are so important, now they can do. And then I could focus on what I call the Maha Mandala, and that is what has always been a part of the school called the inner teachings, the inner teachings. And these really consist of the Vajrayana, the Kalachakra, and then a new aspect that I've been working on called Shingon. Shingon is a Japanese form of the inner teachings, the esoteric teachings. So when I was away on my retreat, I was really, really working on these yogas, the yoga of the mandala. It's this giant world with so many dimensions where everything comes into balance, where you have to be very, very aware of so many dimensions and factors of dharma that bring into play a condition that lifts people into a brighter state. So this is what I was really working on. Now when I was in, I was on retreat and people were like, wow, where were you? Were you on a tropical island? Were you in India or something like that? And I was like, oh no, I was in Manhattan. Yeah, I was in Manhattan doing this. It was great. And this is because when I studied with my teacher, he moved us as beginning students from wherever we were in the country, I was in California, and he said, no, I want you all to work in New York. And we all moved to New York. And we went through the beginning, intermediate stage, and the advanced stages of the path in New York. And there's this group, a small group of sangha mates of mine, who are very, very, very successful in enlightenment, in yoga, and this advanced yoga mandala. And so I was there working with them. And we would do, you know, like, a session with them is like a four-hour session, and it is a session of holding that mandala in your mind. And it's holding thousands of dimensions in your mind in balance. And then another aspect of it is, you know, in the Kala Chakra, which is a very, very, very large doctrine of enlightenment, there's many dimensions for teaching the way to enlightenment. Now the thing about them is that they're they're extremely strong in holding these dimensions and they know all these amazing things. But they're like, well, we're not teachers. They don't teach at all. They barely teach me. I just kind of like keep up when I'm around them. They're like, we'll show you, you just have to keep up. But they say, you know, there's so many teachings that we know of, we just don't teach. So it's kind They're all like, let's say they're all like surgeons. So they're like, oh yes, here's the scalpel, and the clamp, and things like that. And then they're like, oh, and for you, it's like a mechanics tool chest. I'm all, oh my gosh, there's a wrench. You know, I'm all, oh boy. So it's a whole bunch of tools I just automatically know how to use. So they're all like, yeah, you can do that so they're they're kind of very precise and elegant and but they're like here's all these things that you can use to to to do your work and it's like Oh, yeah, I know how to you immediately know how to use these things and there's thousands of these So I was like wow, this is really cool. So we were working together and and they're like, oh yeah, so here's these tools you can use to help your students. I said, oh, thank you, that's really excellent. And one of the things, one of the outcomes of my retreat is that I can teach the teachings of enlightenment, not in the structures of mysticism, but in a direct way. And I can teach beginners and enlightened arhants at the same time. Because the nature of the mandala is kind of fractal. Like when we see the mandala, we see it as a sphere, let's say. And then you can go into the sphere. So it depends on what level you're at. You can look at it at a surface level, and if that's where you're at, that's where your personal power is, that's where your awareness is, you'll see it at a certain level. You'll go, oh, I get the perfect teaching there. But when I create the mandala, it also has tremendous depth that reaches completely into the highest levels of enlightenment. So if you're an arhant, you can also look at that from the surface and go deeper and deeper and deeper and deeper and deeper into it. So that means that I can teach in one teaching, through this creation, I can teach enlightenment directly. And I can teach it to beginning students and our Hans. And for both, there could be liberation. Yeah, so these are the teachings of enlightenment. And in each teaching that I give, these are always teachings of enlightenment. And the teachings of enlightenment are important. I remember for me, my teacher gave one teaching of this system. He gave one teaching. And it was the initiation into this. And then in that teaching, he taught us how to become enlightened. He said, if you do this teaching, this one teaching properly, you'll be enlightened. And then he said, and this is just the beginning, there's many, many other teachings. And I was like, okay, I'm ready for them all. And then he passed away. And I was like, oh man, well, at least I'm going to practice that. And then I practiced and practiced and me and about, I don't know, like 40 other students who I am aware of, actually from that teaching became enlightened. And that was one teaching. And I taught that same teaching to my students and in the U.S. when we moved to Hawaii, I came up to a level where I realized a second teaching, not just the initiation. It was the next teaching. And when I taught that teaching, during that teaching, 16 of my students became liberated and then many, many more after that. teachings are powerful. These are the direct teachings of the most essential aspect of our school. These are the teachings of enlightenment of the Kala Chakra. Now, they all have to can teach at many dimensions and many levels. It's very important that you understand that that's what I do. And Shodans and Arhants, they're the ones who do what I used to do. I used to do the magical things in the desert. I used to do the transmissions, the empowerments, the initiations, those are so vital and so important on the path. If you don't have the transmissions and empowerments and initiations, then you kind of don't go anywhere. But because my students are strong, my showdowns are strong, they can focus on that and I can focus on a different level. It's kind of like Gordon Ramsay, you know that chef? Right, so for a while he was a great chef working in some other chef's kitchen. He was making all the great food. Then he got his own restaurant, his first restaurant, and there he was the executive chef where he actually didn't cook anything. He just made sure, he's like, you cooked that right. Oh, this is wrong. That scallop is wrong. And then, you know, and then, and then he just made sure that everything in that restaurant was perfect. And then he started having multiple restaurants. And then he couldn't be the executive chef, he had to get other people who's the executive chef. And so then he now he's got like, I don't know, 40 restaurants or something like that. So many Michelin stars. He's like, Michelin stars everywhere. Anyway, so, so, this is what it's like, like for me. I'm like the Gordon Ramsay of, of Spool of Enlightenment. I've got many executive chefs, really great yogis, great shodhans, great arhats, who are really able to run the show, able to do the work. But I also have a role, a very important role that I provide for the whole organization. And that role is, I don't know, what do you call it? I call it a Maha Mandala. I hold a structure in my mind that connects everything. It's very subtle, but it's most essential. Now, a very powerful thing happened last night. We, we, we worked up to something very, very, very special. And what we worked up to is the yoga. All these powerful teachings of yoga. Very powerful transmissions of yoga. Very powerful connections. Some of the Shodhans did such powerful connections to the desert. Like Vajradhara, he did this one teaching that I haven't done since probably for, I don't know, like 18 years. And he did this teaching, and it's funny because my teacher used to do it every time. And I was like, wow, I haven't done this for so long. Not even the ST4s have never shown that to you guys. But, yeah, Vajradhara was just like, I'm going to show this. And it was so strong. And it was as high as ever I saw my teacher do it. It was perfect. I was like, ah, amazing. So, I mean, the level of perfection of the Shodans is admirable, to me. I'm like, wow, you guys did great teachings. And then we came into last night where we Alright, yoga is yoga, yoga is strong, mysticism, connection, places, power, transmissions, empowerments. So, Vietri did an amazing empowerment. Just so many amazing teachings. And, and then sharing the way. The empowerment to all students to share the way, the teaching empowerment Shen gave. Sharing the way. This is the way of our school. It is to be strong in yoga, strong in yoga. and to share the way. When you become strong, capable, then we help. You know, we want to share the powerful things that we learn, the enlightened things that we learn, the things that relieve us from suffering and elevate us, we want to share that. So this was within the mandala, the circle of teachings. Many teachers got up and showed the way of teaching, power, yoga, sharing, At the end, EJN and Kali were sharing the organization, the Sangha Org. And we call it the Sangha Org. Gonna change that name. Oh yeah, I changed my name, right? So I'm just the ajan, the plain old ajan. Just plain old, I'm not, what was that one from Spaceballs? Just plain old yogurt. Do you guys remember that? I know, sorry, Spaceballs is old. Plain old ajan. Yeah, so, but this was a very, very beautiful thing, because when I left for my retreat, I said, showdowns, you guys are strong and smart. You guys have been very successful in careers, businesses, you know, create the Sangha. And they said, okay, we'll work on that, we'll do that. And they did that, and they actually created it. And even when I was in New York, when I was hanging out with these very advanced yogis, they were impressed. Before I came back, they said, the structure of your sangha is so beautiful. I was like, oh, cool. They said, you did such a good job. And I was like, I didn't do nothing. I'm here with you guys. So they're all like, oh, you did such a good job. And I was like, thanks guys, great. But I didn't do nothing. My showdowns did it. Whoever stepped up to help create the sangha in this round was very successful. Yeah. And made a beautiful thing. So what I saw last night is beautiful teachings from BJ and Kali. And you know, I was like, this is wonderful. This has come together to be, and I was watching as we went into our last kind of meditation of elevating sangha into a mandala. And this sangha, it became something and I was watching for it to become something and it did last night. And it became became what I would call the diamond, the gem, the mani, the ashira. It is the diamond mind of enlightenment, which is an amazing... I mean, that's another way of talking about the Mahamandala. It's something strong, something valuable, and many faceted. And the light comes through it and rainbows are part of it. If you look at that diamond, it's bright, right? The light comes through it, but then as you turn it, it's like the rainbows. And rainbows are, they're aspects that reach through to the world but it itself is this glowing perfect diamond strong and you know indestructible valuable amazing beautiful many facets so I saw that in the mandala. It came into the mandala as a diamond, as that gem, a diamond mind. So that became so very highly elevated that this is the new inner structure of the Sangha. We do this from time to time. The Sangha changes an inner structure. You know, it's like the Buddha Dojo was a pyramid. Before the Buddha Dojo, there was a lotus. You know, there was different things, different structures that are the essence of the school. And I think that everyone who's worked on and developed the Sangha as it is right now, very successful. And it all came together in the very last moment, the teachings last night. So it is the essence of the school is a diamond. And therefore, this morning, I looked up on my Sanskrit dictionary the new name of our school. So the Buddha Dojo is POW, as we say in Hawaii. It's over. Sambara is POW. Buddha Dojo is POW. It's a new way because it's a new day. So it's the Ajan, and it's the diamond school of Buddhism. And the word is Ashira. Ashira Buddhism is now the name of the school. Ta-da! Ashira precious. But this is the new name for the school. So, I mean, this is going to be some transition period, right? Because we have to technically change Buddha Dojo and stuff like that. And also, you know, Vajradhara was talking about that too. The diamond mind. He saw, he brought that dimension, the diamond mind. And that is very, very, very similar to the mandala. Many facets, many dimensions, and in each little corner a rainbow can appear. It's really beautiful. Now, as I said, from these teachings, my teachings are teachings of direct enlightenment, and and they are subtle and they're profound. So I give the enlightenment teachings. And I work hand in hand with all of my Shodons. My Shodons are always teaching the structured pathway of mysticism, developing power. So that means that I can sit with beginners and I can say, this is enlightenment. And they can go, hmm, and they can see it in a certain way. And then my arhants in the same time could see enlightenment in such deep ways and have higher realization. But it is my arhants who do the strong, powerful, heavy heavy lifting, stuff that I used to have to do. But they can do that. They can show you all the powerful techniques. They can empower you. They can give you every transmission. I don't do transmissions anymore.

0:37:03
They do the transmissions,

0:37:05
and they do it really impeccably. They do the empowerments. They know when to do the initiations. They're the ones who have the extremely important capabilities to bring you onto the path, to uplift you on the path. I'm just like in the background saying you know, enlightenment is seeing life in perfection, no mental modifications, just direct awareness, direct being. And I am that expression. And that sounds like a nice thing and if you see it, then you can say, wow, there's something powerful in that. Because that's me expressing a deep truth of where I understand experience, life, awareness, consciousness. And it's a very, very high elevated condition that I've attained through many years of meditation and yoga. And I'm just expressing the truth. And then, you know, students who are new can go, hmm, that's inspiring. Then advanced yogis, shodhams, and arhants can say, wow, there's so much depth in that. And I create that construct, the mandala, that at the surface, it's good. And at the essence, it's good. So that's what the Buddha said. Enlightenment is good in the beginning, in the middle, and at the end. And it is. Now, I just want to end with an important consideration. So, last night, during the final meditation, after all of the powerful teachings of the Sangha sharing the way. I got up and I was like, I just brought it together. This is a mandala, it all came together in balance, in structure. And so there was, last night, a student took the teachings, all these powerful teachings, and became liberated. And this is a newer student, well, an ST5 is what we call them. I mean, they've been around for a couple years. And, you know, they haven't even gone through all of the, you know, Shodan teachings. But this student became enlightened, had moksha, like for real. So, in every teaching that I give, enlightenment is possible. And I work the mandala, and they work very strongly with the shodans, who do the empowerment. So our school is bigger and stronger than before. And there was a, you know, a student last night became enlightened, and not even a showdown. And this is good. I really like this. You know, there have been a couple other ST5s who became liberated. And it happens. But here's the important thing to understand. You know, if you become liberated, that's great, wonderful, fantastic, you know, mazel tov, right? It's great. But then there's still more to do. Moksha, liberation, enlightenment, is really just the beginning. And for, you know, ST5, for newer students, if you're not a shodan, that's what you've got to get to. It's like, you might be enlightened, maybe you had your enlightening moment, right? Great, fantastic. But you've got to become a showdown. A showdown is the essence of the school. That means that you can, you know, you've worked enough in yoga and everything where you can take all the empowerments of the school and then proceed with the school. So, for example, I remember when I met my teacher, who was like a 10th degree black belt in martial arts. Like, he could knock you down without touching you. He was magical, right? And then I was like really into martial arts since I was a kid. So I was like, oh, teach me. So he told me, do, I was a Kung Fu person, and he said, get a black belt in Shotokan. And I was like, what? Kung Fu is so superior. And he was like, no, no, no, just do Shotokan. So it was a big thing for me to release my Kung Fun-ness to do Shotokan dojo, and they were really, you know, into sparring and stuff, and I was learning all their kata, so I was like, oh my gosh, this is so easy compared to Kung Fu. And then when I sparred, I was very advanced, you know, like I was doing Kung Fu since I was six, and then, you know, I had real life experience. I was a very strong martial artist when I got there. And I always thought that karate black belts were simpletons. That was my attitude. I had a bad attitude. Anyway, in my dojo, I was able to beat all the black belts. I was a white belt. I walked in. I was a good, I was just a really strong martial artist. Lots of kung fu, you know, 100 street fights. I had a lot of experience. So I walked in and I was able to beat like everyone, everyone in the dojo. Now, even though I was able to beat them, it was with my old Kung Fu style, but I was really there to learn karate because my enlightened teacher said, there's a power in it, there's a state of mind, there's a condition, something special that I want you to learn. I don't want you to just go there and beat them. I want you to learn what it is. So then I stayed and I learned, and I was able to go from, you know, kung fu mind, which has its powers, to learning, you know, like, if you put me in a fight with anyone, I would beat them. But I wanted to learn karate. I wanted to learn the art. I wanted to learn that system, that way. And by learning that way, I became a much greater, stronger martial artist. So, just because you have a moksha, moksha is like getting you a little black belt, good for you, and maybe you can kick some butt, that's nice, that's good. But, what we have to do is really learn the art of our school. Be powerful, be a powerful yogi. Get a black belt, be a dive master. Do all the things in this school, because this school is a powerful expression of enlightenment. So it's not just, I got my moksha and I'm going to go to karate, get my black belt, got enough, learned a little bit, got a black belt, now I'm going to go do music or something, right? Just move on to something else. No, it's like you enter the way of an art, not just to get the first aspect of it, but it's to master it. And for arhants and shodhans, and some are very, very strong, very, very powerful, it's not just about getting to a level of attainment. It is to take that awareness of light and bring it to your whole being. The first levels of liberation, it's real. Liberation is a real thing. The moment you have a moksha, it's not just a samadhi. Samadhis are good. Good state of mind, beautiful meditation, transforms you, makes you really happy. But a moksha, that moment of enlightenment, it's where there's a connection to light that never ends.

0:47:04
It's profound.

0:47:05
So this ST5 who had that experience, it's the real deal. But it's not the end. It's like, now you have to take that little part and you got to bring it to every aspect of your life. If you have that light of enlightenment, then you have to start looking at your karmic patterns, your samskaras, and you can just take that light and say, let me look at this deep karma. And if you just hold your mind on it, it just dissolves. That's the power of enlightenment. But you still have to be impeccable. You have to exercise your mind, your enlightened mind, to look at the different aspects of your life. Okay, I'm going to just keep going on, but I have to actually drive to LAX, flying to Budapest, going to teach the day we land, right? Okay, perfect. So, I would like to say thank you to the Sangha, and thank you to the Shodhans and the Arhants who taught in the desert, who worked with me in this new structure, the Maha Mandala, where the Shodhons and Arhats are uplifted into a higher structure of Dharma, to be a great assistance to the enlightenment of all of us. So thank you all so much

0:48:50
Be well

0:48:52
And I'm just gonna this one little other thing I want to add I'm gonna send you guys a mandala for a visual meditation And what I'd like to do is whatever your meditation is after your meditation five minutes focusing on the third eye open eye meditation on this this visual mandala. We're going to get it to you probably within 24 hours or so and I just want you whatever meditation practices afterwards one song or five minutes third eye open eye meditation on this image. It's going to bring all of the dimensions of this time of power together and it's going to share this desert trip experience, all these transmissions, all these empowerments, all these amazing teachings from these powerful Shodhans. All of this is in the mandala. And as we go on through the months, we're just going to be working through shifts and changes in the mandala. It's going to be wonderful. It's going to be wonderful. Thank you so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
