0:00:00
You you you so so So You're not alone So You're not alone. so so so so so so so so so I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it. So You're not alone. So So Oh, So today I'd like to talk about unity. Now the essence of the spiritual path, from any spiritual tradition, points to unity. You find peace and happiness when you are one with everything. And that's in every spiritual tradition, even in every religion. So, it's because unity is the greatest force in the universe. It's the lack of division. It is union. It is yoga. It's where everything comes together. All opposites are reconciled into balance. So, unity is the essence of the spiritual path.

0:03:56
People suffer because they don't see that unit. People suffer when they see that they're separate. They say, oh, I'm this person, there's that other person, I'm this thing, I'm not that thing. It became part of me. And that's one way of unity, but also just if I still my mind and look at it, it becomes light and I merge with it. So there was like a Zen master and he goes over and he's overfilling the tea cup and spills all over the place.

0:10:34
You remember that?

0:10:35
You know that one?

0:10:36
Like the Zen master, you go over to him and you go, here, give me some tea and then he just pours too much tea in. You thought it was to prove a point, but it's just he works really hard. He always gives 110%. So when we see that we're divided, we always have limitation. But when we see that, you know, we are one with things, the limitation goes away. And it's kind of funny, I use the analogy of a dream, because you're obviously looking at things and seeing separation, right? But in the dream, when you have a dream, everything that arises appears to be separate, but it all came from your mind and it's all of us. But the different places in the dream have limited awareness, unless you understand the full picture. There was one time where I had a dream where I was like an intermediate student talking to an enlightened master, some Buddha. And I was like, I see him in questions, and he was giving me answers. And then all of a sudden in a dream, I was him. And then this other character is asking questions, and then I'm giving the answers. As a beginner, I didn't know all these things. I was asking, what's this? How do I get out of that? And then he had all the answers, but I didn't know it. And then when I was him, I knew all those answers. So I was actually, you know, from different character to different character, you can have a limited understanding. But then ultimately, if you understand that all of this arises in the mind. Then you have the greatest wisdom which is seeing the unity of reality. So we find that our minds are troubled. Thoughts, feelings, like our limited awareness. But to see the essence of mind is to realize I'm not my thoughts. Those are not essential. They don't last. They're very transient. I can't even hold on to a thought. It just goes away and another one comes. Yeah, so you're like, oh, I'm not my thoughts, I'm not my feelings, I'm not even my body. This is what Ramana Maharshi was doing when he was like, what happens if my body dies? So you can see what you're not. And then when you see what you're not, like in meditation, right, you still your mind, you're not your thoughts, you're not your feelings. When you still your mind and there's no thought, then that's the state of unity, the state of samadhi. It's a mind that is one with everything. So we observe unity in Sangha. We observe unity in pure spirit. So with Sangha, unity is really, really important. Being together in the organic fellowship of a spiritual group is a beautiful thing. It's very powerful. A very strong light of Dharma exists. It is kind of like the highest pinnacle of a community, of a group. And it's important. Rama always Sangha keeps you safe. And he said because they have a lot of power to them. And he said if you don't have that spiritual power from the Sangha, then you'll get picked off by bad karma or un-Dharmic forces or something. So he said it's like being in a song that's being in like a herd of zebras. And then the evil lions that want to eat you, they just see all these stripes in there. Which one is that? They can't even see you anymore. So there is, yeah, there's a safety aspect of being in a saga. If you weren't in a saga you would think, oh it'd still be the same. No, it wouldn't be true. Like I was saying, you know, like Enlightenment is on the loose because we have a very strong saga. We have a very, very strong saga and then that makes something available that wasn't there before. So that's important. So it's important not to create division in the song. And that means that you shouldn't be, you shouldn't hold negative views about anybody in the song. And sometimes, you know, it's, it's, it's what we have to like work for. Even if it's like, you know, somebody did you wrong, then you have to like really forgive them. You have to practice bodhicitta. I remember when I was, you know, an intermediate student in my sangha, I had this real big trouble with this one guy. I was mad at him. And then it was by focusing on the Dharma where I was able to actually learn how to let go of suffering, being angry. And then I was happy. And then I was stronger. Everything that happens in sangha is a way of teaching and creating a stronger unity. And you know, the Rama Sangha was a really difficult sangha. You guys are really, really, really nice, and you guys are really nice to each other. And they were like, occultly attacking each other. They were, like, getting them to work in a group of, like, herding cats. They're so individual and so troubled by everybody. They were all cultists, so they're all like, oh, everything matters to me. And they would get all, you know, they were, like, supposed to work on a project Rama gives them, and then, like, it falls apart because they have all sort of, like, you know, like, occult differences. Remember one time it's just one was like, Oh yeah, so we were doing this project, but then we all got mad at each other over like you know, like different interpretations of our astro chart. It tore us apart. Now we're now we're in crises. So anyway, we argue about all sorts of stuff. And then it just would make the group, you know, get messed up. Now, there were times where groups worked, but Zazen, they worked together well, right? was also the security team was something that Rama pointed out as something that worked. Not the first security team, the second one. We had a revision. We fired most of them. And then there was just a clean group of eight and it was, you know, and I was on that and I got to be a part of a team that was really strong and so I was like oh and I was like yeah this is how I expect this is how I want people to work together but then you would see like all these little yoga projects come together and everyone's all like magic wands, like all being weird to each other. Anyway so what I'd like to do is I'd like you to Bring to mind a person in the Sangha that you might have a difficulty with, or maybe that you have had a difficulty with. And what I'd like to do is I'd like to do a consideration of, you know, unity, which is I'd like you to just see that person in light and we're gonna just do this as a meditation and it could be a lot of people. All room! No, it could be just anyone like someone who you had trouble with just bring them to mind and we're going to hold them in this light and this is a dimension of light that solves problems it brings things together so sit up nice and straight bring the folks we're gonna sit for one song holding that person in light.

0:21:19
the the the the the the the the the the the so so so so so

0:23:22
Yeah, as you know, the senior students of the school, it's very important for you to always be clear that if there's any problem with anyone that you have in the sangha, you have to practice bodhicitta. You can't just sit there and blame them. You have to be working on it. And to say they're wrong and they cause your suffering is not the right attitude. So for me, like when I remember this person who I was so angry at, I would only blame him and feel bad. And then that would suck. But I was working on it. I was trying to learn the Dharma to get over it. I was really trying to get out of it. And then finally, it was in a Bodhisitta session where I saw him, and when I was giving him light, everything became luminous, and I was able to just drop the reacting self. So in the Sangha, you know, if you have a difficulty with someone, it is a pathway to enlightenment. Like, truly. Because if you do what you're supposed to do in the Sangha, you work on it. You don't just give up, you just don't say, okay, I have an enemy. you transcend the trouble through the practice of Dharma. Very good. Then you find that the person who you were upset with, you find unity with them. You are one with Brad. So another important aspect of unity is how we interface with the physical world. And the first way that we interface with the physical world that brings unity is personal balance, right? So Rama always called it living a bright, tight life. And that means that you have good tone now, that means that you exercise right, your diet's right, that your practice is going strong, that your career is strong. So these are all considerations of course of how to live a good life. And yeah Rama was like you're not all going up and down and all over the place. He's like you're just like an airplane's flying. Pilot doesn't have to do much right? Flying across the ocean or something. Just oh little change here and there that's how Robin said just little changes but that's how you live your life just really really really really strong you're not up and down everything's fine little adjustments Oh Fox News you remember that Malaysian airplane crash you guys remember that it was like a couple years ago anyway so Anyway, so Fox News figured out what happened, who did it. Yeah, it was the left wing.

0:28:07
I don't know.

0:28:09
You know Fox News, okay. The left wing Fox News. Yeah, so, yeah, but I'm always like, just little adjustments, and then that's how to keep proper balance. But another big way that we interface with the world is through yoga. So our yoga projects are always, you know, like some giving to the world. So, you know, like Streamline, right, is giving software to the world to make people's lives easier. Isn't that cool? You know that's AppBuddy too. AppBuddy was like do you know how many clicks we save users? And that you know like when someone has to do something that's gonna take an hour because of bad software they're like no now they can do it in five minutes. So that's like we're really looking at the things that we make whether it's software or something that's out of work, right? We are always thinking about how it helps others. And when we have that intention of helping someone, then we come into a stronger unity with the world. Like right now, we've got the ProCare. This is one that I like a lot, because it has really one of the strongest dharmas of the moment, because the Supreme Court said,

0:29:52
hey, guess what?

0:29:54
Everyone go crazy. They're all like, every state can do whatever it wants. And like all of a sudden, 90% of the country said, you can't have an abortion.

0:30:06
Did I tell that reprocare joke? It's, you know, jokes.

0:30:11
They all have to have like, you know, a good delivery, except for jokes about refill care.

0:30:29
Okay.

0:30:30
But yeah, refill care, it's, you know, in the article where they say, you know, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,

0:30:33
the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,

0:30:35
the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,

0:30:37
the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,

0:30:39
the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,

0:30:40
the, the, the, the, the, the, the,

0:30:41
the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,

0:30:44
the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,

0:30:51
the, the, the, the, the, the,

0:30:52
the, the, the, the, the, it's, you know, in the art of war they say, you know, there's this magical thing called the way. And if you have the way, you can do amazing things. And Reprocare has the way. It definitely does. And yeah, it's just, it's, yeah, I was like, I was like, this is your time. Like, let's rally for Patton! Anyway, so, rape broker is a beautiful way to help people in the world or whoever your yoga helps. So what we're going to do is we're going to sit for one song focusing on the third eye and this is kind of a seeing dreaming exercise where you see the impact of your yoga helping people.

0:32:07
Thank you. the the I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here alive. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here alive. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here alive. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here alive. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get out of here alive. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the the the the so you you Very nice. And finally, there's the union with the non-physical world. And this is something that we do in meditation. inward beyond the physical world and in stopping thought we experience that union. This is something we do in mysticism. So mysticism will go out you know to the desert or you know some place of power and we start to connect

0:34:43
with the energies of the place, the power of the place. And by going to those and by accessing those non-physical powers, it affects your life. It gives you a still mind or it gives you power to do things. I remember I was moved to New York and I was just like doing waiting jobs, trying to get my first programming job. But it was not going easy. And then we were going to do the winter solstice in Anza Borrego. And man, I had to work lots of extra shifts to make the money for that trip. But I was like, I'm going somehow. And then I went there, had an amazing beautiful meditation, many beautiful dharmas. But I just like had a beautiful meditation, it was a beautiful power trip. And then a week after I returned, I got my first contract. So when you go to places of power, you're connected to power. And those non-physical energies also can have like some, you know, enlightening effects. All the saints in the West and in the East, you see the picture? They've got like a little halo or aura around them, right? I like the little angel halo. So it's like that being is connected with a non-physical energy. Like showing that that saint is connected with a light. Or like even Medicine Buddha, right? Medicine Buddha is this field of indigo light healing. So you know, that's what happens in spirituality. We connect with some non-physical light, like some dimensions of light, and then people can see the dimensions through you. And, you know, that's how, it is through those dimensions of light, how you learn to meditate, how you get the secret teachings, the spiritual teachings, the transmissions, the empowerments, right? So as mystics, we connect with places of life. And that's really how you learn to meditate.

0:40:12
Because I would like, you know,

0:40:13
sit there and try to meditate by myself. And if you do that, you don't go very far. But if you sit there with Rama and he's like, then you're like, whoa, somehow I just meditated. And then eventually you become that light yourself and then that light comes through you. That is the process of connecting to the non-physical and into unity. one more meditation and this is also going to be focused on the third eye and there's a there's a dimension of unity a dimension of light I want you to still your mind I want you to just see just see this light and it's a it's a beautiful light that we're we're placing in the mandala and the mandala has many things, but everything is in balance, in union. The mandala has many things, but it is one. So sit up nice and straight. I'm going to

0:41:28
So so So Very nice. All right, so we have all sorts of fun stuff happening today. And then we'll have our final meditation, and that will be meditation and dharma talk. And then we're going to do something really magical. It's called making the mandala. Okay. But first, but first, stand with me for a minute. So let's just stand a little bit on the eyebrow

0:43:43
to wake up the meridian on the side of the eye, under the eye, under the nose, under

0:47:13
Under the mouth.

0:47:15
Back of the head.

0:47:17
Don't be shy. On the collarbone. So this aligns all the meridians so that they join the right direction. On the sternum. Under the chest, on your ribs, under the arms, just do one arm, and on the top of the head. Thank you. All right, so yesterday was about personal enlightenment, and today is about the enlightenment of everything. And it's about connecting to the whole. It's about connecting to Sangha, to, it's about Sangha enlightenment. It's connecting to non-physical dimensions and physical dimensions. So we are building the mandala today. We're making the connections. And in our writing exercise, I hope you have your journals and your pens. And if you're on Zoom, please pull out pen and paper. So in our writing exercise, we're gonna have two considerations. And one of them is, one of them is about Sangha.

0:49:06
Actually, both of them are about Sangha.

0:49:08
But the first one is, what are the things and the dimensions of Sangha that inspire you, that make you happy, that uplift you? And you can write activities, but it's the qualities when you, as an individual, connect with Sangha? What is it that inspires you, uplifts you, and that you connect with, that you love about Sangha? So, it doesn't have to be a definition of Sangha, and it's not about one person or your group of friends. It's about Sangha. What is it that, you know, when you go to an event that you're like, oh this is gonna, this is what I'm gonna engage in or this is what I'm looking forward to the experience of, you know, let's say, you know, everybody is so mindful and joyful all the time or we're going on a dive trip and I'm going to be experiencing all these beautiful dimensions but try to find the qualities. So what are the qualities that you come back to when you connect with Sangha? So that's one. And the second aspect is that when you come to Sangha, what is the best in you that you bring? What are the qualities, what are your qualities that you bring to Sangha? classes or I love the or I bring a very strong discipline to martial arts classes or something that that you bring that unfolds in you when you're interfacing with Sangha or that you want that you bring with you when you're interfacing with Sangha. So these are the qualities in you that you actually put forth when um to the Sangha. Okay? Alright, so we're gonna just spend a few minutes on this, about 5 minutes. We're gonna play a song just to, you know, everybody can think about it in their own minds. And after that, we're gonna take a break. So we'll have like a 20 minute break until 10 after this. And if you want to keep writing, you can keep writing, otherwise enjoy more breakfast. But let's take these five minutes to really ponder these two points.

0:51:45
the the the the The. the the the the The. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Thank you. All right. Thank you all for coming back. I know it's been a long two days, but we've been on a journey together. We've explored. We've looked at the Buddha nature.

0:56:58
We've explored our own enlightenment. Today we've had incredible experiences. I don't know about you guys, but in our group we've like went up to the sky and to the stars and the cosmos, really explored a beautiful dimension and obviously the unity in the group. So now the task is to bring it all back together and bring it back into this world. We have to land, we have to go back to Earth. And so, when Shuri and Kali came to me a couple of weeks ago and said, hey, would you want to give the last talk before we close with Ajan? I'm like, uh, yes? And then they're like, okay, so we'll explore everything that cosmos and then you have to bring it back to the physical." I'm like, uh, okay? I had no idea. My good old samskara friend, my unworthiness samskara friend came up at me, like, for the Mandala retreat. But I awaited it. I awaited that from Svaras. I was quite happy. I'm like, okay, things have changed, actually. Instead of going into my doubt and into my block of, oh my god, what am I going to tell these people? I trusted. I realized that, okay, if this is an assignment that was presented to me, that's something that I have to pick up, and it's something for me to learn as well from. And so, I decided not to, you know, figure it out mentally, which was really good, because that would be my first reaction to try to take it in my head. And I trusted my second attention, and I had some beautiful dreams, actually, about it and it came very clear to me, it's like what is our physical manifestation of light? What is our expression, not only as individuals but as a school? What is so unique about us? What is different? What makes it so successful in this school? And it just appeared so clearly to me. It's Karma Yoga of course, right? Like Sambara said this morning, Ajahn said this morning, Karma Yoga is really something that is unique and something that we bring to this world. We can interact, we can bring on beginners, teach them skills. Then we go through our own intermediate practice of going to Karma Yoga, right? And we learn impeccability and we get beaten up and we really burn our karmas off and we struggle and we fight and we push and we get knocked out and we continue. Winston Churchill, if you're going through hell, keep walking. That's what we did. We went through hell, the hell of decomposing ourselves, of getting really strong feedback, and we kept walking. And now we're in the advanced yoga, a completely different dimension of yoga. This is the real yoga of selflessness. This is where we learn unity. as a team this time. Right? And we do things for our yogic friends and we really put ourselves out there and we see it as something that builds us. And we know this time we're smarter, we know if there's a challenge that comes up, we know it's because it's by design. We need to work on something. If we have a samskara, a difficulty, an obstacle, we're not upset at it anymore. We know that, ah, ha-ha, I am going to work on this. Right?

1:02:16
I remember very recently, actually,

1:02:18
I was, you know, doing my sales, which obviously always comes with its challenge. And actually I was doing all sorts of other things than doing what I was planned to be doing, which is prospecting and call calls. And I had a lot of other ideas and a lot of other things I could get involved with. And nothing was working. I couldn't deliver what I had thought I was going to deliver. And then after a while, instead of being upset at myself for not completing my tasks and not being able to show this beautiful strategy and diagram that I had somehow in my head, I actually realized, like, okay, if it's not working, it's because that's not what I'm supposed to be working on. And it was very clear to me that it wasn't because I was messing up, it was because that wasn't the right flow for me, it wasn't the right thing to be focusing on. And it was funny because in that same weekend, Bajradar and I both came to the same conclusion like, oh, we have to refocus on sales instead of doing all the other things that I was doing. And so I was able to just redirect the energy, redirect the flow, and then we started and it came much more naturally. And so, Karma Yoga is our way of giving to the world, right? It's our offering to this world. And I can see it very clearly when we were doing the exercises yesterday about our expression, our own expression of enlightenment, or even this morning about putting our intent. I see it very clearly that our Karma Yoga is a unity. All of these Karma Yogas are actually the same. It's one offering that we're giving to the world. I had an actually a complete experience of it recently when I went to a conference in Miami. I don't know if you guys have been to Miami but it's like I called it the armpit of the world. It's sticky and it's smelly and it's stuffy and it's everybody's half naked there and I had to go there and do it. I was at a conference and I had to try to talk to all these strangers in this large conference and I ended up being alone. My teammate got sick and couldn't come and I was like, oh my god, I have to deal with this whole energy on my own in Miami. And so, that's what we do as Karma Yogis, we just do the work. And I did the work all day, I was talking to strangers. Have you ever tried this, like talk to a hundred people you haven't never met before and go up to them and say, Hi, what are you doing here and where did you come from? It's really tough, but I did it, it's my job, I'm a yogi, what am I going to do? I'm going to do my Karma Yoga. And in the evening, I had signed up for this party, they often have extra things, and it was like 8 o'clock at night, 8.30, maybe 9 o'clock, the late party, after-dinner party, right? And I'm like, oh my god, now I have to go to a party where everybody's going to be drunk, I've just worked my whole day, and I was really tempted to just sit it out. I had all the good excuses, right? I was alone, it was late, I had worked really hard on my own, I had all the good excuses to not do it. And then, again, what am I going to do? I'm going to do my yoga. So I put on my little party shoes, my little golden sandals, and it wasn't very far, so I'm like, oh, I'm going to walk. So there I'm walking in Miami with everybody spilling over the streets, you know party alcohol drugs, whatever you can imagine and I'm like walking with my little golden sandals and I'm like, oh my god, I really have to do this and then suddenly I just saw it I was Walking to this party. I didn't have anything really didn't know why I was even going and I thought I was walking on a golden bridge and it was in these shoes and this like going to this yogic feet. It was really a yogic feet. But my feet... Exactly. It was my yogic feet leading me to this party. And I just saw it. It was so clear. I saw this golden... I was almost above the ground walking to this party. And I know at this moment, I know there is no other better place or better thing for me to do than go to this crazy party for some reason. And so I go and I mingle somewhat. Again, you know, hi, there you are. A lot of noise. I saw the organizers. I wanted to connect with them because they could be a prospect to clients. I wanted to make sure that they knew we were there and supporting them. And then after a while, I'm like, okay, after the drunken conversation, I'm like, okay, I did my yoga task.

1:07:53
I'm going to go home.

1:07:54
And as I walk out, actually, our first client of our company walks out at the same time and we look at each other and we're like, yeah, we're out of here. And we start walking and we started chatting and it was so interesting because I got some insights, we had a personal contact, we really could actually dig into what we were doing and how we could help them better. And then eventually we went to have a little glass of wine in a nice quiet restaurant, thank God. And then I realized that was the best outcome of that party. And I'm like, that's why I went there, was to have this conversation. Even if it was a tiny thing, right? It was just a half an hour conversation, but that was the best outcome of that situation. So that's what we do when we're on advanced yoga. We put ourselves out. We take our preferences, our fears, our desires, our oppositions out of the equation, and we do what has to be done. We've all done that. We've all picked up tasks that we didn't think we could do or we didn't want to do, but we do it because we're there for the team and we're there for the yoga. So, that's what I would like us to do now. I would like It's a size of actually connecting in Karma Yoga. And you remember a lot of you were there in 2018 in the Anza Borrego. We had a gratitude trip there with Ajahn and many of you were there. And then he makes us sit in the gorge in the desert and then he made us do our intent, set an intent. And it was so powerful. There were maybe 30, 50 people there and we say our intent in front of another 30 people in the gorge, right? And it was such a strong empowerment of that intent, that sankalpa. And I remember very clearly my intent. I remember a lot of other people's too. But I remember mine. And my sankalpa was, my intent is to make Apari successful, to elevate the whole sangha. And I knew everything I have to do is just work on AdBuddy. And the next year, we got the acquisition, and then all of us got the advanced teachings. And it was such a strong exercise of building that intent and offering it to the desert. So, we're a bit too many to do that here in the plenum, although it would be fun to listen to everybody's intent. But what I suggest we do is we're going to break up into groups of four. And first we'll take just a couple of minutes to connect with our yoga. And choose one of you. A lot of you I know are giving so much and are maybe working on two or three different yogas.

1:11:16
Some of you are working on business yoga,

1:11:18
some of you are working on Sangha org, some of you are teaching or mentoring. Choose your most powerful yoga, the yoga you're most connected to. And then just write down maybe a few goals for the yoga and for yourself. And then, state a sankalpa. What is your sankalpa? What is your intent for this yoga? It could be, like Ajahn was saying, what is the intent of this yoga? How is it going to transform the world? Or it could be just your intent, what do you want to bring to that yoga? What is your vision, your goal? What is the best of you that you can bring to that yoga. And then, so take a few minutes to write that down, and then as a group, everybody will go one at a time, and just take a couple of minutes just to read out, maybe you can just describe quickly what your yoga is, you know, what your goals are, and then your sankalpa. And say your sankalpa out loud, and then all of you as a group will empower that Tsongkhapa. So, just stay maybe one minute together empowering that one person's Tsongkhapa. And then we'll go to the next person. So, maybe you'll need three, four minutes per person to really empower that Tsongkhapa.

1:12:43
Okay?

1:12:44
And then we'll come back and we'll share experiences. So take a few minutes to, you know, take that few minutes to think about your sankalpa and then you can express it as a group. I suggest we break up in groups of four and you can just, it would be nice to pair up with people that you don't know what their yoga is. For example, you're like, hey, what yoga are you on?

1:13:15
I don't even know.

1:13:16
But if that's too complicated, you know, just doesn't matter. Just find yourself in a group of four or five maximum, and then we should come back here in about 20 minutes to share in the plenum, and then we'll do the next stage. Any questions on the exercise?

1:13:34
Okay.

1:13:35
You guys are ready. Wasn't that amazing to learn about each other's yogas and even learn that there were complete yogas we didn't even know about, right, and empower them. It was so powerful in our group. We just empowered the yoga and then at the end everything just and you know we could hear other groups as well and it was like you know and each group is a little like mandala and then it's just kind of all merged together but did you guys experience any sharing that you wanted to bring here anybody wants to share this on Kalpa if you need more empowerment to it, yay!

1:14:27
Shambhala!

1:14:28
I'll share. It was more exciting to empower other children than to empower mine. It was really beautiful expressions of just commitment and seeing my link to more of the black room has inverted to the black room. Oh yeah.

1:14:57
Yeah, that's right. We even have our little crystals and our own expression, right? And everybody's got their own different way of doing yoga or different quality that they bring to their yoga. That was so beautiful. Okay. Yes. So, I noticed how in other empowerments that were usually given by the Asha, usually he gives the empowerment to feel that energy come to us, to be available to us so that we can fulfill our sense of awe. other four beings going like... all the powers, you know, with such good intent, it was just so strong. So, so strong. It was. Thank you. I think in alignment with what you were saying, Petraeus, it was a lot of the... all the past empowerment was very naval chakra, but I felt never in this very like crown chakra

1:16:04
that we're empowering stuff at a level of selflessness and influence.

1:16:10
Yeah.

1:16:10
Wow, that's a beautiful story. I thought it was interesting how over the weekend we would create our lights, a clock, lights popping copper, and then we'd be able to kind of splitter 5 meters of it into a huge, huge bubble, and then also navigate into the world, and it almost felt like a mandala that has a, sort of a 4-dimensional aspect to it, it's like a self-unfolding mandala, and you can see the top, the world, and it's actually a perfect image. I remember that was the plan. That was the plan. So, by covering that, like, sort of,

1:17:02
drawing all the things, all the art pieces, and it's not gonna be all the things people have in their memory, but it's just so beautiful to see how you draw things of that size.

1:17:14
Yeah.

1:17:15
Thank you.

1:17:16
Yeah, this is it. Oh, nice. Let's empower this soundcloud because it's for all of us.

1:17:32
So, the Alanda Loa Yoga could use the empowerment for all the present students. Let's do it.

1:17:41
One way of phrasing it is, building a temple that supports and empowers the enlightenment of many. So let's do a one minute empowerment on that, Michael. that supports and empowers the enlightenment of many. Thank you. Okay.

1:18:16
We're going to go ahead and get started.

1:18:18
So I'm going to go ahead and start by saying that I'm going to be doing a presentation

1:18:22
on the new technology, which is the Google Cloud Platform. And I'm going to be talking about the Google Cloud Platform

1:18:28
and how it's going to be used in the future.

1:18:30
And I'm going to be talking about the Google Cloud Platform and how it's going to be used in the future.

1:18:35
And I'm going to be talking about the Google Cloud Platform

1:18:38
and how it's going to be used in the future. And I'm going to be talking about the Google Cloud Platform Thank you. It's a beautiful temple shooting up, right?

1:19:06
The light. Okay, so we're reaching to the end of this session, but we have one more

1:20:32
one more exercise to do. So, as some of you said, yes, Karma Yoga is really our expression of unity and our offering to the world. And sometimes we compete with each other, each yoga, maybe who's going to get the biggest sale or who's going to get funding first or who's going to, which resources we compete for. But really, we're not competing, right? We're inspiring each other. What one yoga learns, the other one picks up and takes it to the next level. We all know that. And so actually it's an exercise of bringing all these yogas together, of melding them together and creating that diamond, that Ashera Buddhism diamond created from merging these yogas together. Such a powerful, sharp, strong structure in our school. We're all part of it. We're all pushing to meld this diamond together. So, our last exercise is we're going to place this yogic diamond in our mandala. I'm going to place, find its place in the Maha Mandala. All of your lights, all of the cosmic light, all of the yogic lights, all in this, melded together and placed it in this Maha Mandala. So we're going to do that together during a one song meditation. And as we do that, as we meld our yogas and our intentions and our sankalpas all together and we bring it into the Maha Mandala, we know we're creating this golden bridge. That's the bridge between what we're doing here and the world. That's how we're bringing enlightenment to the world. That's our vehicle of enlightenment. That's the golden bridge we're all walking on. So we're gonna place our jewel and our Maha Mandala and we're gonna open this incredible beam, this incredible bridge of light. And we know that many, many people, many, many generations are going to be walking this bridge. This is it. Let's meditate together. Let's bring this unity into our Mahamandala.

1:23:28
So so You Thank you, Yogi. Thank you, Yogi. We did a good job.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
