0:00:00
The highest, most direct experience of enlightenment in our school. It is the really, truly the foundation of this school of enlightenment because it is direct enlightenment. And it has many many qualities but it is a very very very powerful thing. It's very often depicted in a drawing, in a thangka, and it has usually a lot of other kind of drawn structures within the circle. Many circles within the circle, in each circle there might be different deities, forces, dimensions, worlds, all sorts of images of religious, spiritual, higher knowledge. And a mandala and they'll have like all sorts of little things going around but it is all balanced. And even sometimes there's like some things that are trouble or things that you would think are difficult. Like there might be wrathful energies. Like you could say, okay, so we're, we have this mandala, but then we have these five demons there facing out. Those five demons fall into a dharmic balance because they become the protectors of the Dharma. So there are all sorts of ways of taking all sorts of energies and dimensions and powers and bringing them into balance. So the yoga of the Maha Mandala is doing that in your mind, bringing everything into balance. The Maha Mandala is an expression of unity. The Maha Mandala, when you practice this, and this is what, this is the main point of why I'm bringing this opportunity.

0:03:22
This will bring you into a higher state of unity. And what that means is that you, you will experience higher states of enlightened consciousness every day. So with this new way of the Dharma unfolding, even for very new beginners, you will experience enlightened states of consciousness. And for, you know, Chodons and Arhats, advanced students, you will, through this, have higher enlightened states of consciousness that we explore and experience every day. Because this mandala is a powerful, powerful vehicle of unity. In the mandala, everything comes together. The mandala really is a construct of enlightenment itself. So there's only two things that separate your consciousness from enlightenment. One is the self, when you believe that the ego is real, you say, oh no, yeah, this is definitely me. I'm definitely separate from everything. Then your whole way of perceiving life is a way of duality. But that's not true. Enlightenment is simply seeing beyond the illusion of self, seeing that you are not a separate self, that you're not this whole definition of your being, and that you're actually one with everything. But when you have a self, then everything that you perceive is duality. But it's just false.

0:05:45
Like, from the point of view of the self, we could say right now, because of a separation, a dual awareness, you actually perceive life in a way of partiality, of limitation, of something false that you think is true. Like if I was going to say, all right, which way is up? Right? We would all say, I mean, isn't that up? Because we're on the ground, don't think we can get more up by going into the ground. So it's just very common awareness. Up is that way, right? And that's true from a point of view. But what if there's somebody else on the exact opposite side of the planet. And we ask them which way is up. They are going to point the opposite direction. And they will be pointing down compared to where we are pointing up. So very often when you are just perceiving, perceiving life from a point from a partial view of you of duality and that view while it might make a lot of sense is actually not true. So let's imagine that we were flung out into space and we're like okay now which way is up? It's not so easy but that's the truth that's what we would call the true view. So when you're in a fixed position on the planet Earth, well that way is up. But then there's somebody else saying, no, it's exactly the opposite. And both are wrong. But if you're all, if everyone's floating in space, and you're still alive, then you're like, oh, every way is up.

0:08:05
And that's the view beyond self. Now, the funny thing about even enlightenment, where you can get beyond partial view, you know, you have to beyond the self and this dual view, you still have ignorance. Enlightened people are still ignorant. That's true. I mean there's plenty of things enlightened people don't know. Right? I mean even like the famous amazing saint Ramakrishna, I remember one of his devotees was telling him about math or weather or you know like science stuff and he's just like, I'm getting a headache. I don't even want to think about it. And while he was very spiritually enlightened, he had things that he didn't know about. That's a kind of ignorance. So the pathway to enlightenment goes on and on and on.

0:09:05
It never ends. Even the most enlightened people still have things to learn. You can always find a new way of understanding the universe through understanding anything. You can look at anything and understand more. So when we are ignorant, there's always more to learn. I often talk about ignorance as you're in a dark room and there's a whole bunch of stuff in the room. There's, you know, there's some food over there, some money over there, but then there might be a snake over there. So it's like, whoa, I got to be very careful about what I do in this room. And then enlightenment is having a flashlight where you can go around, see what's there, see if it's dangerous or see if it's not. And that's cutting through. But wherever you direct your mind, the mind of enlightenment, you cut through that ignorance. But you have to, you've got to go around still. Unless you're like, you know, the most enlightened person in the world, then it's just, you know, there's, you turn on the lights, you see everything in the room. So that's where we work towards.

0:10:33
We work towards having first illumination, because then we don't have a perception of duality. We have the direct seeing, but it's only as big as our light. So someone might have a big lighter and somebody might have a big flashlight. And then the more and more that you develop your enlightenment, the more and more you see. But it is ignorance that cuts you off from unity. So it's the work to take that light, that truth, perception of eternity and to direct it, looking around the room, seeing what's what, directing the light, the undifferentiated light of consciousness, directing it to what's there and learning more. Now the Mahamandala is that condition. It's the condition of awareness beyond the self and it is the condition of that room with the lights fully on. So it the highest enlightenment this way. Now in the mandala there are ten thousand things. There's the good things, the bad things, there's all sorts of things and there's everything. This is how we describe it. We say ten thousand things and that just means there's energies, there's all sorts of things, there's everything. That's a way of talking about it. There's a whole bunch of things. We can say 10,000 things. And that's in the mandala, the maha mandala.

0:12:55
Even though there's everything there, everything is one. And to understand the essence of the maha mandala is to understand the unity of the ten thousand things. They all appear in a circle. They all appear in balance. This is what the mind of the Maha Mandala Yogi does. It balances everything into the Dharma. And it's really hard to get that because you go, no, I'm totally different. I'm separate. That thing's over there. There's a mountain over there, a rock over there, a bush over there. All these things are separate. I don't see how they are one.

0:13:46
And yet they are. My example is, let's say you are not doing dream yoga. You fall asleep and you just have some random dream. And in the dream, the Jolly Green Giant comes over to give you some Brussels sprouts. And then in the dream, and you're like, I don't like Brussels sprouts. But the Jolly Green Giant is pretty jolly. And then, let's say some monster starts chasing you. You start running. Oh my gosh, there's a monster chasing me. And then you see some beautiful angel.

0:14:26
And the beautiful angel picks you up and saves you from the monster. And you're all, thanks angel. And then you become the king of Mars and somehow get lots of money on Mars. You get the mineral rights or something. Okay. You know, and so like all this stuff is happening to you in the dream, right? You find yourself in a green submarine chasing chasing down a kraken. Who knows? Right? Isn't it funny? All these bizarre things happen in dreams. And then you wake up and go, that was just a dream. But if you look at all those things, all the crazy things that you've ever seen arise in your dreams, the people, the places, the situations, ups and downs, it all arose from your mind. It just came out of your mind. Your mind is the one place, the place of unity of all those things that would arise. It is exactly the same right now with waking consciousness. That is the essence of mind. You can see that in a dream. You can see that in the waking. So everything that arises is actually one. It is in one big mandala of enlightenment. And a powerful awakening is to see the unity of all things.

0:16:08
I remember the movie Contact. I think it begins with just a big white screen. And then you start moving into it and the white parts start breaking up and you see that there are these giant mega galaxies. And then they move apart, and then there is this one right in front, and you go deep, right into this one mega galaxy that has all of a sudden hundreds of thousands of galaxies in it. And then you go deeper and deeper, you finally get to the Milky Way, and then you go into that, and then you go finally into our solar system, and finally to Earth, and finally into Jodie Foster's house. But this is, this reminds me of the Mahamandala. Because from a point it looks like one. And then if you go in there is everything. And And even though everything arises from the mind, being in Jodie Foster's house is a particular experience. She has a particular pathway to enlightenment, particular story and all these amazing things that happen to her in the whole movie.

0:17:33
So this is absolutely true. arises, even though it is a one, it is particular and it's important, it's special, it's like everything that arises, arises for a reason of Dharma. Some garbage that arises in your life, you're like, oh my gosh, I forgot to pay taxes or something like that. It arises for a reason, it's a very important reason for your enlightenment. Someone gives you a hard time, very important thing that arises for your enlightenment. So everything that arises, the cat in the hat, a mortgage, a flat tire, that's not a rising, that's deflating. Everything that comes up in your life or in your dream, you know, the Jolly Green Giant or the purple submarine, yeah, all that stuff. Everything that arises is actually specific. Specific and has a meaning and means something for enlightenment. Everything that arises. Nothing is taken out of enlightenment. And this is to say that everything has a suchness.

0:18:50
Suchness means that it has an enlightened aspect. In everything that we see that arises there is a perfect enlightenment. I know we kind of say no way, that's a bad thing. Not a bad thing. You have to use the understanding of the mandala to put it into balance where it becomes dharma. There is no such thing as bad or good. But there is dharma. Putting things into order creates dharma. In samsara there is nirvana. That is kind of the ultimate to express that. But in understanding the mandala, everything that arises, every little thing, pieces, individuals, stuff, dramas, they're all enlightenment. And it's our job to figure out how to find that enlightenment. Everyone who's ever been enlightened, ever, had all sorts of stuff in their lives. This, that, the other thing. You can read the stories of their lives. And there's like, oh, I had this father that was like this. I had this problem with this. I meditated like that.

0:20:11
I learned about this. They took a thousand things, I'll say ten thousand things in their life. And they brought it into balance. And that's what brought them enlightenment. There is this story. There was this guy from Asia somewhere. He was all a Buddhist. He liked Buddha. But then he came across Christianity. He was like, Oh, I am going to do that. He got into Christianity. He was like, Yeah, I will take Jesus as my personal savior. Then personal Savior. And then he died. Saved. And then he goes up to heaven. And they're all, come on in. And he's all cool. He's there. And he's like, hey, you know, so I remember from my Buddhism, you know, Buddha was a cool guy. You know, is he up here in heaven? And they're all, oh, well, where's Buddha then? Oh, yeah, we sent him right to hell. He goes, oh, can I go check on him? Because I used to kind of like the guy. Yeah, sure. Hell is that way. So he goes, elevator to hell. He gets down there. And then he walks into hell, and it's gorgeous, beautiful, shining, luminous. It's even better than heaven. He's like, wow. He goes over and then he sees Buddha with his students and he's like, wow, this is great. Buddha's like, yeah, sure.

0:21:50
And then he's like, hey, so why is this so beautiful? I love it so much. I heard hell was a bad place. And he goes, oh, it was pretty bad when you first got here. But then we put it into order. This is the pathway to enlightenment. You take your life and you put it into order. You take your life and change it from hell and self to beauty This is what the teachings of the Mandala are. It is a very, very, very, very precise, deep and powerful, luminous way of taking everything in life, bringing it to order, and going from a condition of separation and duality to unity and enlightenment. Now in the Mahamandala there is what I would call the emptiness of eternity. And the emptiness of eternity is, oh my gosh, I got all this crazy stuff in my head, so I got to like meditate and stop thought.

0:23:32
And if I can stop thought, if I can become empty, then I enter the enlightened stages. I could become empty of all these things jumping around in my head, that I could see through them. They are not real. And then once I recognize that they are not real, then I experience enlightened stages of consciousness. And that's good. That's what you read in all the spiritual books, right? But then there's the other aspect of enlightenment, which is what I call the advanced aspect of enlightenment, which is that everything is enlightened. Everything is enlightenment. And that means that taking any single thing, a blade of grass, a grain of sand, and saying, let me look into this, and seeing that it is enlightenment.

0:24:58
This is the way that enlightenment unfolds. Just like if you're a beginner or enlightened, any way that you can see enlightenment in anything brings you to a higher awareness of enlightenment. So for beginners, it's look at the enlightened teacher. Focus on that enlightened teacher. Do what that enlightened teacher says. Look at their consciousness. Follow those things. Do the enlightened mental kadas that they're teaching you. Follow that. Do that exactly. And then you uncover in that great enlightened being or in the enlightened students of the enlightened being. The Shodons or Buddha's arhants, right? It's like follow them. They're enlightened. Do what they do. Learn from them. And if you can figure it out, then you have enlightenment through insight. Now start to have mastery of Kundalini, or start to have mastery of compassion. Start to spread and expand your enlightenment. But any time that you take anything, some great enlightened master, or a grain of sand, and you can see enlightenment in it. Your enlightenment grows within you.

0:26:30
This is the Mahamandala. The Mahamandala is very technical. It is very technical. My teacher used to say this so often. He's like, is such a complex place. It's so complex. Thousands and thousands of dimensions in perfect balance and in one. But if you have one dimension out of sorts, it all goes to the honey bucket. So it's a very complex thing. It is very similar to being a computer programmer. If you have one thing off in your code, it just won't work. But if you have everything proper, works and it is powerful. Think about something very simple. This is one of the examples that the New York yogis I was working with were telling me. They are like, look at Google. You open up Google.com, simplest screen. You just have to type something into a box. Simplest simplest interface. And yet, do you know how many lines of code is behind that one thing? It's like, once you write something in there, and you click something, then trillions of lines of code do something.

0:28:17
And they do something that seems to work. You're like, hmm, this is important. Kittens playing with yarn and it will go and do it for you but anyway yeah so what we do in the in the yoga of the Maha Mandala is we there's you know there's putting a lot of code together for reasons and they usually end up being very, very, very, very, very complex. But we can do some very simple programs in the beginning. We can do like, like tonight's our hello world of the Mahamandala. And we can do some things that are very simple. You know, that's the thing when you're, when you're doing your first hello world, you're sitting on, you know, you're, you might be learning your first language, but you're sitting on a language that can do amazing things and make you a lot of money and get you to make a website where you can put kittens, yarn, playing the piano and saying, I love you.

0:29:29
All sorts of stuff. of this mandala is like programming, but it's like programming the most essential aspects of higher awareness. It's very strong. And it is something that is not just a piece of code that you write and then it just sits there and runs. It's always, I say it's like co-creating the universe. It goes out to help beings across the universe in every way that they need help. Any way that they need help. And it's not like, okay, here's my hand 567 that just helps in some certain way and then if you are there it will help you maybe a little bit. You know, it's not like some government program. It's like, no, I am specifically, my hand is specifically aware of your need. And I am lifting you up. I am really, really going to help you. So, Avalokiteshvara's thousand arms, thousand hands of compassion are always aware of what exactly in the moment a being needs to help them. And that's being active in the flow, not just an idea. I mean you could see a painting of Avalokiteshvara, you can see in your mind, even a painting is too thick, it's just a physical world, but you can see in your mind that Avalokiteshvara exists. And that all the things, those thousand arms, and there's more than a thousand arms, they're active. And they're a powerful aspect of sustaining Dharma in the world. So this is a very, very, very powerful and beautiful way of enlightenment. What I'd like to do is I'd like to sit with you just for your third eye. So there is a direct seeing of the mandala. It will probably appear as a circle, a circle of light or a sphere of light. And then you may understand different qualities. You may understand a lot, you may understand very little. But this is your introduction to the mandala and it is a very, very, very core aspect of the school. But I would like to just sit with you just for a few minutes, focus on the third eye, have your eyes closed, and just have that intention to see the mandala because I'm going to open the mandala. Okay. Very well. Good.

0:37:41
Okay, okay, very well. Good. You all did very well. Yeah, this is an introduction. And tonight what we're going to be doing is we're going to be actually building a mandala. And the way that we are doing it is we are working through constructs of enlightened attention, that these very powerful structures in the mandala, in the second attention. But there is also every specific thing, every specific thing teaching was amazing. It was perfect, perfect, perfect teaching. Yeah, so just amazing. And it falls within, it was the beginning of this mandala of enlightenment. It includes many dimensions. Let me tell you a little bit more about this Maha Mandala. What I call the Maha Mandala, In the second attention, it is a very, very strong structure of connection, unity, balance. What Buddha called dependent origination and how it perfectly comes together. So it's depicted in a circle, but it doesn't actually exist in a circle. It just is understandable from the circle. But it is what it is. The second attention is a very, very, very powerful understanding of how everything arises and how everything is enlightened.

0:40:27
And how if you have that awareness, you can work with those things and write programs. So this has been a very, very strong structure in the school since the beginning. It is an aspect of Vajrayana Buddhism and Shingon Buddhism. These are considered to be the inner teachings, the esoteric teachings, the secret teachings. And these are the essence of teachings of enlightenment. Now, we also have very, very strong teachings of mysticism. However, mysticism by itself is just black magic. Like if we all just were sitting here doing mysticism, we might become very good mystics, but then it doesn't make you enlightened and the mystical powers could actually make you get more into self. Because if you have magical powers you tend to get more, oh I'm special. But what we do is we put both of these things together. We put enlightenment, these fundamental structures of enlightenment, together with with mysticism. And mysticism adds like the turbo boost that really makes your your practice effective but there has to be those inner teachings of enlightenment.

0:42:17
Now I remember when I was learning I just thought that whatever my teacher was teaching, I just have to master that and do that to be enlightened. And that's absolutely true. We call that a vehicle. A vehicle to enlightenment. So it's like, you know, if you have to get from point A to point B, you know, walking could be one thing, but if you have a vehicle, you know, if you walk that way, you might get eaten by coyotes or something, right? But if you have a vehicle, you'll drive there and you'll be like, okay, cool. There's a way. What you have to learn is you have to learn how to drive. So, the Maha Mandala is called the supreme vehicle. Now, there's many famous vehicles.

0:43:08
The Buddha's vehicle was called the individual way to enlightenment. Theravada Buddhism, the individual's way to enlightenment. And then there was another vehicle after that called Mahayana, which is the great way. More than just one person's way, but the way for everyone to be enlightened. And then they went kind of like a little bit back again and they're all, well, there's another way called the Vajrayana, which is the fast pathway to enlightenment. These are three of the most famous vehicles to enlightenment. And in the supreme vehicle, all three exist. So in the teachings of the school, ultimately there are the Buddha's direct teachings of how to become enlightened. And there's also a very big teaching, the Mahayana, enlightenment for all. And then there's also a very big teaching, which my teacher emphasized as the special thing about the Maha Mandala, which is the fast path, the fast way. So, let's say the individual teaching is like a motorcycle.

0:44:31
You can get there. Let's call it like a moped. It will get you there eventually. A little slow. Then there is the Mahayana, the big way. Let's say that is like a soccer mom's minivan. Let's go get a lot of kids over to the enlightenment thing. And then there's the fast path, which is like having a Corvette. You're like, oh, I've got my car, I'm going to get there. There's different ways to enlightenment. Different people like different ways. Some people are like, you know, the moped is pretty good. It gets me there eventually. Some people are like, I really like to have a lot of people in my minivan. It is more fun. Some people are like, I like the Corvette. In this system, you have to learn all three. You will experience all three aspects. It is just part of our path. That's why it is called the supreme vehicle. The supreme being.

0:45:47
Supreme vehicle. Yeah, so, that's just what it is called. And it does incorporate all aspects of all vehicles. Now when I first came to the path, I was like, OK. My teacher is like, here's your vehicles. Let's say it's just one car. Here's your car. And the whole thing that you got to do here is learn how to drive it. I was like, OK.

0:46:14
I'm like, oh, it's hard to drive. And what do I have to do? And worked on that a lot. And eventually, I learned how to drive it, and a little bit better. And eventually, I became a master at driving it. And so that is, you know, being able to, you know, follow a vehicle that brings you to liberation. Now, what I learned, that's how I always thought of it, like, becoming enlightenment is learning how to drive that car to get from E. But what I learned now is that you can make new vehicles. That is exactly what my teacher did. It is not a fixed vehicle. It is a fixed vehicle because it is something that works. But sometimes you need to actually add new features to that vehicle because conditions change.

0:47:19
Enlightenment from time to time has to change, or the study of enlightenment. Because if we are just going to do exactly what Buddha taught 2500 years ago, it is not going to work with what is going on in these conditions. So we have to have the truth of enlightenment. We have to modify the vehicle so that it works in these times. And that's what the yoga of the Maha Mandala is. It is saying a recognition of enlightenment right now. And having a vehicle that works is good, but also learning to change that vehicle. So like I used to just be like learn how to drive the car, got from you know point B to point E and then now I'm like oh wait now I know how to actually do new features on a vehicle. I know how to like you know like let's say when I was a student I had to drive down a flat road. And let's say that some of you have to drive up a bumpy dirt road, I can go, OK, let me recode this through the Mandela and give you four-wheel drive.

0:48:39
And so it helps you. The vehicle changes and gives you the feature that you need. And you know, it's like, or some of you guys live in Hawaii, like driving down the road, that's really cool. Let's put a sunroof on this baby. Make it a convertible. I don't know. You know, it's like for the conditions. You can make it useful and you can make it a nice aesthetic. But it is, it is literally adjusting and changing the vehicle of enlightenment. Now my teacher did this too. So when I was with my teacher, he was like, okay, here's the path. And he was teaching students for many years and they were all advanced and powerful and all this crazy stuff.

0:49:27
And then I remember one big change that he made in the intermediate program for us. So he taught, I don't know, for 15 years where he taught all this power yoga and all this stuff. And then I remember a time where he started to teach Bodhisitta, the yoga of compassion. And I was like, what? I've never heard the older students talk about this. And I'm like, where did this come from? And what he was doing was he was changing the mandala. He was creating the yoga of compassion as a pathway to enlightenment for his students. And you know, you can't just like throw a book at a student and say, hey, look at this cool spiritual book, and it becomes dharma. In a school with thousands of structures of support for enlightenment. They come from the mandala. Everything has to be balanced. You have to be a master to create the thousands of dimensions. Like, you know, my shodans and bodhans will know from the practice of the bodhicitta, there are thousands of dimensions of compassion. Like in order for that to be created This is where you have to have that knowledge to say oh, let's Recode this vehicle put four-wheel drive and a sunroof You know and some turbo boosters. I don't know whatever you know so you can add and change the Dharma It was it was like a huge thing when Bodhicitta became part of our practical daily practice.

0:51:22
And for many of my students and many of the successful yogis of my teacher, it was one of the most enlightening, most powerful teachings. But it wasn't there for most of his life. He didn't teach it until he saw that it would help, especially ST2s like me. And he created it. I would also have to say another big impact is the enlightenment yoga. There were lots of these little ST1 companies, the older students. A few of them, four of them would work together and they would make some million dollar company or ten million dollar company or a hundred million dollar company. They all did it as expressions of power. They did it through these occult powerful dimensions and they were really good and they seemed so cool and sleek and awesome and amazing. And then at some point, it was the last yoga round, my teacher said, now we are going to be for enlightenment. The whole sangha is going to do it. Everyone in the sangha has to do yoga. It is going to be if we succeed in this yoga, that is what is going to bring you the advanced teachings. I was And that was a change, a huge powerful change in the mandala.

0:53:15
And by doing that, by making that change, I saw through yoga the pathway to enlightenment. Before it was just a pathway to power, but then finally we got to the way to enlightenment. So this is the basis of yoga in our school. It's not yoga for personal power. This is the yoga for enlightenment. This was created. Most of the time that I was with my teacher, it was just yoga for personal power. Then it was created, yoga for enlightenment. My teacher was creating, he was flowing with the Dharma and expanding and creating more opportunity. That's the yoga of the Mahamandala. So ever since then all I've been doing with my students was just following the vehicle I learned to drive. But now I know how to add a sunroof. Which is very important to understand. In this school, I'm talking about the mandala as being the essential aspect of enlightenment, which is true. But mysticism is the most important very advanced stages. When you are an advanced student and you are going into Samadhi and you figure things out, then you say, OK, I understand where mysticism is. But you are a master at that point. So mysticism until you gain mastery is the most important practice. What I'm going to be doing is I'm going to be doing the enlightened teachings of the Maha Mandala for you to show you the higher dimensions. But it will be the Shodons who do the mystic teachings, the most empowered and important teachings. It's kind of funny. My teachings are the enlightenment teachings but all the Shodons and Arhats will be doing the mystical teachings which are the most important until you get really, really, really, really, really advanced. But they are the most important. So we are changing the way that things work. The old way is out, there is a new way. And the old way was where I had to do the mystic teaching. I was the only one who could stand up in the desert and command the winds like this or disappear or show all the different dimensions. But now I have got shodans who can do this work. So in our school there are two aspects. The first aspect is enlightenment itself which is the Maha Mandala. That is the esoteric teachings, the direct teachings of light. Now if that was just the case then 99% of you wouldn't know what is going on. You would be confused. You would be lost in the world.

0:56:51
But it is the power of the mystic teachings that get you to directly understand, move ahead, break through barriers. So from now on, when I teach, you know I'll teach like this, I'll talk about stuff, but I won't do any mysticism. I'm not doing transmissions or empowerments anymore. I am working with my Shodans who are exceptional at doing these things. And I am going to be that second attention aspect, the actual kind of foundation for everything. But I am going to work hand in hand with them where they They do their part, which is directing the teachings of power. The teachings of power are the most important to experience and to focus on. If I would just start teaching just the mandala, then almost none of the, anyone who is not a Shodan would probably just not understand it. But hand in hand working with powerful shodans and arhants who can do transmissions and empowerments and show you Buddhist magic. This is the way of our school and they are good at it. This is the way that we work forward.

0:58:21
Now this is very important. It is a very successful pattern in teaching. It's called the teacher benefactor relationship or the first attention, second attention teacher relationship, which means that you have two aspects of teaching. You have the teachings of enlightenment are usually overlooked and it really requires the mystical teachings of power for you to really, really incorporate it into your awareness. That's why I taught for 20 years, power, power, power, power. It's the most important thing for you to focus on. But also understand that now that I've gone on my retreat, when I teach, I'm teaching power. But I'm teaching power through my advanced students. My main focus is making space in the mandala for them. That's the way that I do it. The way that I do it is I'm like, here's space in the mandala for my advanced student, my shodhan, my arhant, to teach.

0:59:49
That empowers them, that lifts them up to a higher place in the mandala. And it also is a very powerful, effective way of teaching for the whole sangha. It is a higher level. This is a higher Dharma that we are entering into. I can focus on the things that I am exceptional at. It is going to take them a long time to learn by working with me through this method. But they have worked with me for 10 or 20 years to get to the level of being able to teach as a master mystic. Enlightened teachers of mysticism. That was my whole thing for 20 years. That's what I did. But now we're getting to a higher place, a stronger place. So I'd like to sit with you again just for a few minutes and I'd like to have you have that understanding to see the next step in the mandala that we're creating tonight, which is opening to the mystic teachers of enlightenment within the mandala, this balance of enlightenment and great power.

1:01:07
Okay. I'm going to go ahead and get the camera. Okay, very good. Very good. Okay, that was a nice introduction to the Mahamandala, which I will be teaching about more. And more importantly, what I want you to be aware of as we go forward into this evening, there's going to be Shodans who come up and give teachings. And there's a structure of this teaching. It is a mandala. And I'm going to be teaching through mandalas for a little while because that's what I'm into right now. So they're pretty amazing. I think you guys are going to enjoy it. But the shodowns they get up to teach, there is already a structure, a mandala, and they are doing their part in the mandala. They are doing those powerful parts. The mandala is the setting, right?

1:07:34
But they are coming in and they are doing these powerful things. I kind of think of it like apps. Apps on a phone. The mandala is kind of like the operating system. It is kind of important but you don't notice it that much. You are more interested in what application can I use to do a thing that I need? So the the showdowns that are teaching are doing those powerful applications. You're like I need to get this done with banking. I need to get on this flight. I need to get in this list or something like that. And these are the things that you need to do. But without the operating system it would be not as possible. But then the operating system, if there is attention to it, at the level that I have right now, I can change the operating system to give more features that the apps can use. And I would say it is like, I remember when we used to have those kind of flip phones, you know, before the smart phones.

1:08:47
But even when we had flip phones, at some point they started coming out with ones that could do GPS. So it is like if you could build the GPS into the operating system, all of a sudden you could write software for that phone that could use that universal system of 27 satellites that the military put up there to blow up people but now we can somehow drive around and not get lost. Something like that. So that means that there are so many things out there in the world but if the operating system can be written to be accessible then you can say, oh, okay, well, if there is GPS all of a sudden we can have an Uber or stuff like that. It is location aware. So the show dogs who are going to be teaching, they are going to be talking about extremely powerful apps. But it is all within the operating, it is all on top of the operating system. So in every teaching there is a connection. There is going to be the mandala and power. And all of the teachings of power are within a balance of the mandala. This is what we are going to be experiencing tonight. One last thing before we take a break is that with this transformation from my retreat I have a new not name. And my new not name is Samvara. That's not my name. Or it's my name but don't call me that.

1:10:44
He only talked about and referred to and written about as Ajaan. It is not that I am not Samvara. I am Samvara but I don't want to be called Samvara. I want you to focus on Ajaan. When I first came up with Ajaan I was like, stop calling me Samvara. You guys have the wrong intent or the wrong energy. And my name is a very powerful thing, so don't call me Zambara. Call me Ajahn. Ajahn, I was focusing on one of the dimensions of it, which is teacher. So Ajahn means teacher. And it's like if you have a sensei, you say, Hey, sensei, sensei, what do I do about this kick? Hey, sensei, what do I do about this punch, hit someone with it. So it's an important functional thing. It's like if you have a doctor, you don't just say, Hey John, what about this cancer I have?

1:11:49
You're a doctor, what do I do about this? That's a more important thing, right? So that's why I wanted to be called Ajahn. But there's another aspect of Ajahn, which is very strong to my Dharma right now. And this is the Sanskrit word, Ajahn. And it means the unborn. Specifically it means like the unborn but enlightened aspect of eternity. So I'd like to be just called Ajahn for now on. Don't refer to me as Samvara. I'm going to change my email address from Samvara to Ajan. So I'm just going to be Ajan, which means teacher and also the unborn. The Jason Bourne movies. The Bourne supremacy. The Bourne identity. There you go. Okay. The unborn identity. That's me. Call me, call me, call me Azan. The unborn We were there. Ok, not going to go there. Anyway, so yeah, so just Ajahn from now on. Just a really good old Ajahn. Just old, simple Ajahn. Alright, thank you all so much. This was my main teaching for tonight, but we're going to go through the mandala teachings all those teachings tonight and I'll be here at the end and now it is time, the long awaited time to just do what we all come here to do which is the main thing, go to the bathroom.

1:14:15
And then it's like I could have been desert for two things, going to the bathroom and and enlightenment. And guess what? Both happened.

