0:00:00
Welcome to our new Sangha org presentation today. Let's start together with the five minute meditation. Focus on your heart.

0:00:12
so So the the the so so so so so you Thank you, very beautiful. Hello everybody, good morning and good evening depending on where you are. Welcome to our presentation about the new SANGA organization. So we will talk a little bit about the early days of our SANGA which started quite a while ago. So we'll talk a little bit about what is SANGA.org and we will introduce the ideas for the new SANGA.org. We will also talk about what does it mean to you, right? It's not just some abstract organization out there. There is something in it for every one of us.

0:02:47
And so we'll speak to that and we'll speak about the next steps. So let's begin with the early days. So as many of you know I was a first student of samvara. It was 1999, a long time ago and so for a while it was samvara and me and it was a one-person sangha. So that's how it started. And over the years, I've seen the Sarmga grow. First, you know, as the first generation of students, there was 10 of us. We had a lot of adventures together. And then the early generation started teaching, offering public classes, and the Sarmga grew. And so it was about 50, 60 people at that time. And then the second generation started teaching as well and so now the sangha just extended dramatically. So we are 450 people plus, maybe 500. So there's a lot, our community is quite big now and it's really been amazing for me to see from my first meditation class to the day when Samara said, Hey Tara, let's go find our friends. And we sure did. And I just love to see how everybody is growing and developing and benefiting from this beautiful structure of Samatha. So, I think it's important to look back and outline our successes, of which we had many. So for all of the senior students, the first generation of Samaritan students, we all are very successful in our careers. top jobs in the Bay Area and we are quite successful financially as well. We're also all martial artists. We are dive masters, and we've participated and run some really successful businesses that made millions and they've benefited the sangha and afforded the sangha to receive the advanced teachings. And as a result of advanced teachings, now we have 37 liberated beings in the Sangha, which is quite remarkable. So, as a new generation of students are joining, they're able to benefit from all of the foundational things we built in Asanga. So they're joining a very thriving community, and they're succeeding as well. They're making much faster progress than we did because of the established foundation in the first and the second attention. So they make very fast progress on their spiritual journey. And I've seen so many people getting technical training, getting their first technical job, which was pretty miraculous for them in their mind, but in our mind, it wasn't, we knew that these structures work. And also I've seen so many people benefit from the structures of karma yoga in many ways and a lot of it is spiritual success and also very obvious success in physical life, improving their livelihood, improving the conditions of their living. and spiritually just expanding the awareness, growing in happiness and joy and wisdom and so many empower in so many ways that people benefit from the Karma Yoga structures. And also, even though we are not able to meet together in person so much, people are still participating in martial arts classes and getting their ranks and belts in there. We're also growing internationally so we have now some good structures in many different places in the world. And even, even though we're remote. There are a lot of successes internationally so Hungarian sangha already reached the point of success where they're able to receive advanced teachings. So having said that, we also are honest with ourselves and we admit that we have some growing pains. So this fast expansion has to be supported by the proper structures that allow everybody to be included and benefit from them. And kind of like no student left behind. So we have to look at where we have gaps and where we need to kind of like keep up with the growth of our sangha. So we noticed that people who are joining the sangha have different levels in their careers. There are a lot of people from different backgrounds, so we need to look at the complexity associated with diversity in our Sanda and accommodate everybody in their unique way. We, so in that sense, we need to create kind of more tailored pathways to different institutional profiles, while also relying and using our core and standards practices. We also have to make sure that everybody across the globe feels included so it's unifying all of our international sound does everywhere in the world right so that even in America we have some different locations now. so that they can teach new generations in a very impeccable way. And also that we're unified and teaching everybody the same thing, right? So, essentially, that we have a strong curriculum that everybody is getting. So, you know, somebody in the Bay Area or Hawaii. So we need a strong foundation and training for all of our advanced students so that they become good teachers and also good yoga leads and good mentors. So, and of course, the pandemic, after two years, two years really through around, because everything moved online. And then we have besides physical distance which is not able to meet as much as they want. just like it's really hard to replace with all of this online fatigue. So we understand that some people might feel a little lonely and disconnected. So our goal is to feel everybody included, connected and to build a very strong sense of community. So these are our successes and growing pains. And I just wanted to outline that so everybody knows where we are. And with that, I would like to pass it over to Asha, and she will just describe to us what is SANGA-ORG and why we're doing all this.

0:14:16
Awesome, thank you so much, Tara.

0:14:18
Thank you.

0:14:18
Okay, so let's go ahead and get into what the Sangha Org is. So our Sangha Org is a structure to really help us share responsibilities and work together to support our Sangha. It takes so much work to be able to deliver all of the teachings, martial arts, events, all of the things that we access through the Sangha. We need people to help support and teach. So the Sangha org structure really helps us to provide that and sort of share in that work of delivering those teachings to our Sangha. Students also come together to organize many different other activities like meditation classes, our communications, and so much more. So having a structure really helps us to have people that can take that work on and deliver it with an excellence. Currently, we have over 50 plus people, not only in the US, but all over the globe, internationally, that are helping to support our Sangha organization. And they work selflessly and tirelessly to make sure events like this have the proper setup, communication, you know, and include the international Sangha as well. So how did this all start? So about two years ago, we went on a trip to Paris. It was about a month after the advanced teachings. And towards the end of the trip, I was sitting in the Paris airport and felt this very large structure form in the second intention. It felt like something that would provide the opportunity for people around the world to really connect to enlightenment, to our sangha, even before the Sangha org structure was created. People like Tao, people like Atman, who selflessly have worked to make sure that our Sangha have the support that we need to connect together at times like this or in events. So combined with that seeing and the inspiration and seeing Ajahn help to support all of the activities, you know, and teach meditation classes, teach martial arts, help us to learn about karma yoga, help us to learn about career development. It really came together as this structure of a golden pyramid and the second intention, so that we can all join in and sort of share that structure and help us to balance the work together first before we can then excel in and start to share this broader with the world. So that's where it started. And from that point, another Sangha member also had a similar scene. So we joined together and created just a basic structure that would allow for people to step in and start to standardize different areas of the Sangha. So why are we updating it? Well, as Tara had mentioned, originally we started focusing in operations with the Sangha org. And as Tara had mentioned, we are expanding, right? We have so many more Sangha members that are joining, not only in the US, but all over the globe. So we need to make sure that we're providing standards for our community and making sure that we can help to support different folks coming in from different areas in their career and their lives and be able to join in the teachings and connect. We also want to create a very strong Sangha foundation so that we can extend the invitation to spiritual seekers online via Buddha Dojo or the platform that we created online and be more effective in our online community. Even the folks that we're working with in the Sangha Org, I've just seen leaps and bounds in not only their spiritual practice, but their physical lives as well. And I think opening this opportunity to more folks in the Sangha to really, you know, lend a hand, hop in, maybe lead an organization, I think we are ready to unveil our new Sangha Org structure. So with great pleasure, I would like to pass this off to EJS so he can walk us through what our new Sangha Org structure looks like.

0:19:28
Sorry, I was muted. Let me say that again.

0:19:45
Thank you, Tara and thank you Asha so much and thank you each of you for dialing in today. My name is EJ. And as we've been working on this next generation of the Sangha org, we've really wanted to support what's happening naturally within our Sangha and around the world and how we already see students and teachers and everyone organizing together. And so as we've really been seeing how that's unfolded, clear that when a student first starts out connecting with the Sangha, we either attend a meditation class, you know, we connect with a meditation teacher or maybe a mentor or friend who invites us to meditation class, we see a poster, an online ad, etc. Or we might get invited to a satsang. And when we connect with that satsang, that's what happened for me, and we are so overwhelmed by the beauty and the light and the possibility of spiritual fulfillment and happiness and peace that Sambara and so many senior students now offer through their teachings. We say, okay, this is really amazing. Let me try this out a bit. And then we end up working with a meditation teacher. And in some parts of the world or parts of the US, there might be one meditation teacher just working with a few students, like Tara and Sambara started out. Or I know Yogini is working in Paris with a number of students there. In other parts of the world, now that so many people have been teaching for several years, there might be many meditation teachers. In Hungary, there are many, many meditation teachers and many students there in the Bay Area as well. And so when we look at what's happening around the world, and I think Tara alluded to this, each area where students are connecting in with our Sangha might have some, you know, specific unique needs. And we really want to support both and really make these teachings accessible, where it makes sense in different cultural contexts and and geographical locations. And so as we were looking at the sangha, it seemed pretty clear that, you know what, across this global sangha, we actually have many baby sanghas. And we should really work to support that. And what will we call them? And, you know, baby yoga kind of took the whole baby thing and that's, I think, kind of taken and so we thought about, well, what else could we call them? And we recognized that the reason we called this online community, the Buddha Dojo, is that Dojo has a very specific connotation and a feeling to it. And so as we look at these organizations, we can move to the next slide, please. Um, I said, well, maybe we should call them dojos. And so we went to Wikipedia because that has all the answers. And when we looked at what a dojo really means, it's such a perfect description of what we're doing. Because dojo has certainly deep connotations with martial arts, and we really like martial arts. And as Tara mentioned, I think all senior students have earned at least one black belt and, and it's so amazing to see more and more students engaging in martial arts and developing skill and power self awareness through that practice. So that's that's really a critical part of our school but also now. broader meaning, it's a place for immersive learning or meditation. And we tend to like meditation a lot. And even, at least in the US, we've seen dojos associated with computer programming. So there's a hacker dojo in the Bay Area. And so, as we thought about it, this really is what's happening already within our Sangha. We have many dojos that are taking shape around the world with meditation teachers and leaders starting to organize those. And so as we think about this, we are starting to see a mandala of dojos

0:24:38
take place around the world.

0:24:40
Tara mentioned, or let's see, did Tara mention? Yes, in India, like there's such a powerful dojo now, And they've actually built one of the most successful Sangha companies and yoga projects already to open up advanced teachings for many students, which is amazing. As many of you know, several students moved to Hawaii over the past year or so and so now there's there's a dojo that's taking place in Hawaii, and it's really beautiful to see. NYJA is working with students across Germany, Switzerland, Austria. And so that group of students is becoming a dojo in that part of the world. And so we have many that are now taking shape and they each have their own unique flavors and, you know, aspects that we really want to support. And most likely we'll see many more start to develop over time. And so one of the real key things that we're bringing to this new org is a recognition that each of these dojos may have its own unique cultural needs and context and way to share the teachings. And we want to make sure that these dojos have strong leadership to support them. And they're also fully empowered to share these teachings in the way that makes most sense for each of those dojos. So we can move to the next slide, please. And so this is now how we are thinking about the org. Before it was really, you know, an organization with central leadership and, you know, kind of a pyramid around leadership and the key functions. But now the sole purpose of everything we're doing in the org is to support our students and the dojos around the world. That is really front and center in our minds in terms of how we share the teachings and support students. And so all of the dojo leaders that have already stepped up and more that will, I'm sure, step into this organization are the ones that we wanna support. And so there will be certainly a leadership team, four leaders within the organization that we will open up positions to fill. And then there will be three primary components of the organization to support the needs of these dojos. So, the student success organization, all of the operations, managing things like the emails we receive to join today's call, the Zoom that we're now on, and so much more, and then also outreach. So in dojos where we're proactively reaching out to bring in more students, we wanna make sure that we have the resources to do that well. And now what this really allows us to do is to have Sambara, and a few years ago as part of this first org, Sambara set up a leadership committee of senior students to allow that leadership committee to really be the visionaries for, hey, where can the sangha continue to go? And if there are escalations or key roles that need to be appointed, how can we make sure that those roles are filled? But now the dojo leaders and this organization can really ensure that all of the teachings are being shared around the world. And you all may recall that a little while back, somebody shared a really amazing book, The Toyota Way, and it talked about this concept of Kaizen and constant improvement. And so we also want to make sure that there is a Kaizen team supporting leadership and supporting the functions within the organization to help us continue to get better and better and better over time. So now we're gonna take a deep dive into each of these components. So hang with me, it's gonna be a lot because there's a lot happening, but we're gonna take it team by team or component by component in this song. So you'll see here that there are a number of dojos that we just listed out to really support beginner and intermediate students all the way through getting to the advanced teachings. And notice that there are a few boxes here that weren't in that original mandala of dojos, because we recognize that not every student is regionally connected in with other students. And so we want to make sure that there's a dojo, a specific supporting group for students who are online who may not be regionally close to other students and they can still get together, have leadership and support. students, having gone through those teachings myself, there's a lot of amazing new things that happen as you're introduced to the advanced teachings and start to complete that initial liberation cycle. And so we want to make sure there's a specific team of a few folks that are making sure that all of those teachings are happening and, and they're in flow with with the dojo. making sure that all of those teachings are happening and they're in flow with what's being taught around the world and what the different dojos are really needing at any particular time. So we wanna have a support team to make sure that all the dojo leaders have the support that they need to be successful and that we make sure that every student, regardless of where you're located or the level of teachings that you're currently going through, that you have really explicit support. Now, next is the Student Success Org. And this is really where we've also invested in many more roles because, as I mentioned earlier, there's so many students around the world, et cetera, that we want to be able to support. And so we want to have a team, the yellow circle is a very new role, the student journey, a team that really defines the student journey and makes sure that for each student, we're providing the right resources and making sure that they're supported at each step along the way in the pathway to enlightenment. And because so many students are now teaching now, and we have dojo leaders stepping up, we want to explicitly invest in all of these leaders and teachers and provide dedicated training and support and establishing standards so that we're all doing that as best we possibly can and being really effective in sharing these teachings. Career success and job yoga is also a foundational pillar

0:32:30
of our teachings.

0:32:31
And so we really want to invest more and more in making sure that across the world and for each student in our sangha, we have appropriate support to either practice job yoga within the current career that you're established in, or if you're not strong there yet and seeking to get stronger in job yoga and have a strong career so that you can experience all the benefits that that brings with it, that there are experts to help you. And of course, karma yoga, martial arts, scuba diving, these are all core practices within our Sangha. So, as Asha mentioned, there's a lot that goes into just making sure that all of these teachings are made available and people hear about them and you know, there's teachings available on buddhadojo.com, etc. And so, we're continuing to make sure that we have a lot of those roles and also really investing in a new people support function. So while we might work as a dojo leader, yoga leader, meditation teacher, mentor to students, either a teacher or leader might be really struggling with something they're not quite sure how to handle or as a student, like I may be having real difficulties with my yoga leader or meditation teacher, et cetera, and where can I go to get more support? And so this people support team is going to be available to all students and all teachers, everyone in the org as a really safe, confidential avenue where we can talk through these challenges that might come up and get support. In addition, because we have, you know, want to make the teachings and really all of these roles available to every student, no matter where you're located in the world, of course, regardless of race or gender or orientation or any attribute, we want that everything to be available to every student so that everyone feels included, supported, and that everything that is available in the Sangha is available to each of us. We want to make sure that there's a specific diversity, empowerment, inclusion team that's really keeping this in mind and making sure we're practicing this within the Sangha. So now there is also the need to extend our teachings out to the world and and share this light, find more friends. And so that will be the outreach org, and at least four key components of this outreach org will be making sure that we align on the brand and what we're offering to students and that we're really designing the experience for students in a way that's beautiful and accessible and helpful. And then as much as older students like me might cringe from time to time, it seems like social media is here to stay. And we should really make sure that we do a good job there and being available through social media, connecting with our students through social media. And then Google seems to also be pretty important these days. And so SEO, or search engine optimization, making sure that when students are searching for Buddha Dojo or enlightenment teachings, et cetera, we try to make the most useful information available to them. So all of this will be managed by the Outreach Org. So when we go back to just each of us as students and we think about how we're supporting students, all of these organizational roles and everything are critical, but what we want to really start with getting right is these first roles in the experience and then how we organize. So I know that when I first connected with the Sangha, I had a mentor and she, you know, opened up so many doors for me and shared such beautiful teachings. And that was such a critical experience for me to help me navigate experiencing this new Sangha and pathway to enlightenment. And we want to make sure that every student who has a, who would like a meditation teacher, a mentor, has one. And this is your friend, this is your guide, this is the person who is going to help you through those first stages of your pathway within our Sangha. And then, while working with a meditation teacher, we want to make sure that you feel connected with a local dojo and that you have a dojo leader where you see things that are available to you wherever you're based, based on what is most appropriate and helpful. And while you're working with your meditation teachers, private dojo, have your local sangha, your local students, or your online colleagues and friends who are part of your local dojo and all of us get to work together in our dojos to have unified experience and be part of this global sangha. And when you're ready, you can then also participate in karma yoga and then you get to work with a yoga leader. And again, when I was with App Buddy, I had my yoga leaders, Dharma and Parvati, who shared so many teachings and helped me to go beyond self in so many ways. And my hope is that each of you get to experience similar benefits that so many of us already have. And this is really how we want to support each student and then organize both in regions and globally and online to best make the teachings available to all of us. So thank you so much for going through that together with me and for what's next,

0:38:59
I'm going to pass it over to Yogini, for those of you who don't know me. I'm sitting in Paris right now and have been working a lot with the international sangha, so it's a great joy to be part of this team. So really what I wanted to address tonight is what does this all mean for me? And we are, of course, working at being selfless and trying not to put ourselves forefront every time, but this is very normal and natural to be thinking, you know, how is this going to affect me? So hopefully, as you've seen already by the different presentations, it really should help you to get more clarity on your journey and more support along the way. So it's going to be a little bit better, more visibility for you and more standards for you to tap into, and really have support wherever you come in from your journey, what your previous journey might have been or wherever you're going, we should be able to support you better. As Tara likes to say, no student left behind. This is important to us. So really, you should see the benefits of this new organization in those terms. Also, as Ejeya was mentioning, we're working to make sure that those of you who need a meditation teacher or mentor have one. And so you should be, again, feeling more connected, having more support there, getting the help that you need to make sure that you can advance on your path and not get stuck somewhere if that happens. So having somebody who can lead you, who can help you, you know, and show you the next step and maybe a little bit encourage you or sometimes even give you a hard time, that's part of it and that's good. That's a good thing. So that also, we're working on that and you should see the benefits of that in the new organization. Also, we've heard, you know, sometimes there's been a lot of events happening between different places in the Bay Area and in Hawaii and then overlapping sometimes events and overlapping trips or not complete visibility of what's going on. So we're working also hard here to coordinate better and pace these teachings and these events so that it's not a, you know, desert and then overload, but more sort of properly paced during the weeks and during the year. So that will be also harmonized across the different dojos, which is always fun and interesting and uplifting. So, again, there'll be a better coordination, better visibility of all these events happening. We like to, you know, us in Europe, we like to laugh sometimes at the times that we have to dial in, and very early morning sometimes, or in India, very late at night. So thank you all for being flexible. This is the beauty as well of being able to be online, is that we can do it from the comfort of our homes. We don't have to travel very far. But sometimes to be able to bring in everybody, yes, we have to stretch along the time zones. So that's going to stay. That's going to be still happening, but we want you to keep engaged, even if it is a little stretch, but stay engaged and keep participating in the events and look out for additional information for these events, but also on ways if you would like to get involved, and I'll get into that in the next slide. And for those Sanghas, wait, just one last point, Ashutosh, sorry. For those who are part of Sanghas where we are actively growing and actively reaching out to bring more people in or to share the light across more folks, please support those groups, those efforts of your team. important and that's a beautiful Dharma to spread the Dharma, share the light, and help those efforts. So that's also something that you can get involved with very effectively and very immediately in your different dojos. So what to expect really in the coming weeks or coming months? I'd say for the beginning and intermediate students, definitely this is our priority now, is to make sure that you have the meditation teachers or the mentors that you need. If you need one, if you would like to have one and don't have one, this is what we're going to be working with the student success organization to put in place. As I was saying, do keep very engaged with the local structure that you have, your leaders, your dojo leaders, your meditation teachers, your yoga leaders. This is still where the most of the transformation, the most of the work is happening. Obviously there's the support of the sangha and that's wonderful, but really the rubber meets the road is when we go into our weekly meditations, we do yoga together, we apply the structures. So please continue doing that. This is obviously, you know, really, really important for your own development and progress. We would like to we've created an email address so you can reach out to us if you have any questions or for example you might have a specific expertise in a domain that you would like to contribute and offer some support, some help. We definitely want to hear about that. Or if you're having some difficulties understanding or any kind of support, additional support that you need, you know, if you can't get that support from your a local group, then please do email this new email address, thenewsfang.org at buddhadojo.com. So the Bodon Shodons, I guess, you know, they'll be a call to action. And we are going to communicate about key roles that you can apply to. And so we'll open it, I guess, in phases so that we can absorb it and then we can build out the teams. So there will be a first round for applying for key leadership roles, and then followed shortly after that, we'll be building out the teams, and these leadership positions will be, obviously, looking for team members. So there is plenty of work. So if you have some spare bandwidth, or you feel really moved, or would like to contribute, or recognize all the support that you've received and want to pass it forward, there will be plenty of opportunity to participate and sign up for roles in the different teams. And of course, as EJ I was saying, these positions are open to everyone, regardless of their race, their age, their gender or their sexuality. This is very important to us. Of course, there will be mentoring opportunities as well. So even if you don't feel up to taking a position or taking on extra responsibility in the SANGA org, we are always looking for mentors and always want to, you know, so we can have enough people supporting the new people that are coming in and more new people hopefully will be coming in. So we will always be expanding the mentor organization. And so, please, also, you can connect there and help us there. transformational. You think you don't know until you start having to teach it or start having to support somebody else on your path. And then you know, like this, what do they say about this, if you don't know it, teach it. So it's a little bit this, that you really do get this opportunity to really help somebody else. And that is so helpful for yourself as well. So these are a lot of changes that we're implementing. We're aiming to have this transition completed and this new org in action by the spring Equinox. This seems to us a perfect timeline, and it will match perfectly with the death ground as well. But in the meantime, of course, this is business as usual. Please don't drop what you're doing. Continue if you are supporting the existing org or supporting students, please continue doing that. And if you can read French, ouvert pendant les travaux. This is what we say in France. It's like even under construction, business as usual, we're still obviously supporting the organization and the students as we have them. So I hope this has shown you a little bit more clearly how this is going to affect you and what are the upcoming changes and transitions that are going to happen quite quickly now. And as I was saying, there's a next session for the Beaudan-Chordon, so we'll go a little bit more into detail of these roles that you can apply for. So looking forward to the new blood in the organization and working with you all. Thank you.

0:49:21
And we shall do a final meditation with Lila.

0:49:24
Thank you, team. It was wonderful.

0:49:26
So let's do a final meditation for one song and let's focus on the heart again. again. the

0:49:40
the the the the the the the So, So. so so Thank you guys.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
