0:00:00
with great. I'd like to begin with meditation. So we're going to sit just for one song on the third eye. Okay, let's begin.

0:00:11
So, thank you. So. So So so So so All right. Very nice. So, when you first learn about Buddhism and mysticism and the pathway to enlightenment,

0:04:55
you learn about impeccability. And a beginner must have impeccability because if they have impeccability, they learn, they grow,

0:05:05
they get to the next level.

0:05:06
Then there's the intermediate level of impeccability. And an intermediate student must have impeccability. If they have impeccability, they learn, they grow, they get to the next level. And then at the advanced level, you have to have impeccability. More impeccability. You've learned the beginner's impeccability, the intermediate impeccability, and now you're at the advanced level. And then you become an arhant. And an arhant needs to be above all things impeccable. You need to be the example of impeccability. So impeccability is essential. It's completely important. Now, what I've been noticing about the Arhants is that you haven't been impeccable. That you've been kind of like in this stage where, okay, I've reached my enlightenment, and so I kind of just want to do what I want. I don't want to push it. I don't want to go beyond myself. I just want to experience my enlightenment. So this is something that Sahaja called the enlightened ego and this is something that you know I I didn't understand this I didn't get this idea of the enlightened ego because I didn't stop. I kept being impeccable once I was liberated. But if you become liberated and get into yourself, get into what you think, get into, you know, like your enlightened-ness, then you'll experience something called the enlightened ego and the enlightened ego is an idiot. So I don't want you guys to get stuck in this in this early phase called the enlightened ego and I Didn't understand exactly what that was didn't make any sense to me until I saw my students. I was like, oh Well now it makes perfect sense It is a lack of impeccability and it is just indulging in your own liberation. If you indulge in your own liberation, you say, well, enlightenment stops here, but no, enlightenment goes on and on. And if you're not, if you're hungry for enlightenment, and it gets you to a salvakulpa samadhi, a nirvakulpa samadhi, a moksha, a primary enlightenment, if that desire got you to that place, if that push, if that burning desire, not just self-desire, if it got you to that place, then that's a real thing. And if you just get there and go, yep, cool, I got there and now I'm happy. Now I'm going to chill out here. That's not enough. That's like getting a black belt in a karate dojo. It's good to get a black belt. That means something. But if you get a black belt and say, nope, I'm not pushing for my second degree, third degree, fourth degree, fifth degree, I'm just chilling. I'm where I'm at and I'm a first degree black belt. If you're not going forward, then you're kind of going back. So I'd like you to consider that as a whole, this aria, this group of, you know, arhants, you're not being impeccable. You're going into a whole bunch of indulgences, you indulge in things, you indulge in your enlightened view of things, you indulge in going back into some skaras, which Buddha definitely didn't recommend. And you're really not focusing on what you have to do as an enlightened being, which is be impeccable. Being impeccable as an enlightened being, as an arhant, is the most important thing. It's important in the beginning, in the middle, and most important at the end. You can't say, now that I'm enlightened everything is just I'm gonna let go. No, you have to be much more impeccable, more impeccable than ever. Rama never got wimpier, easier going, chilled out. He only got more impeccable and he only got more intense, he only got more focused, he only got more precise about everything. And that's what impeccability is. Impeccability is in every moment being fiercely focused on what is truth and saying whatever is truth I will follow it with the whole of my being.

0:11:17
Do you know that's so different than what you guys do?

0:11:19
You guys are just indulging in garbage, indulging in your enlightened view, indulging in your samskaras, indulging in lame stuff. Now, I need to point something out to ST3s saw me, Mandala, and Sananda become enlightened. And I can tell you something, all you saw was impeccability. We freshly became enlightened and we freshly completely focused on Sangha. We completely focused on Dharma. We weren't off there going, well, blah, blah, blah, my idea, my idea, my idea. Oh, me, me, me, me, me. We were impeccable. And so we experienced liberation like you guys, but we rolled with it we went with it we didn't just sit there and go oh i'm enlightened now now i'm gonna stop and do whatever the fuck i want that's unimpeccable impeccability is if i'm enlightened how can i strengthen the virtue of the Dharma? How can I be an image of the perfect enlightened Arhat? Because if you're like whining, blaming, angry, desirous, confused, bullshit, then guess what? You're not doing it that's that's unimpeccability and guess what enlightened people can be unimpeccable it happens and guess what happens it's like drinking a bowl of molten lava that's what Buddha said but but some do so Buddha said a arhant an enlightened one a wise person, would rather drink a bowl of molten lava than to think a thought of desire. But that means anything, desire, attachment, anger, jealousy, garbage, self, anything of the self. It's true. And then look at you, you're like, well I've indulged in a whole bunch of self. And you're not on a mission, you're not going forward. So this can happen. So you guys know Shannon. Shannon the great fully enlightened master. So Shannon is currently living in one of his students' apartments. Shannon went absolutely sideways crazy. This person, he created a beautiful school and uplifted many students, and then he went completely sideways. And he went sideways because he was completely unimpeccable. And he went crazy. And I told, I was telling his students, I was like, you need to get him on anti-psychotic medication. That's how bad he was way out in all of his personal enlightened beliefs. And his students were indulging him. He's like, Oh, take me to China. I need to go to China right now. Pay for me. Take me. And he goes to China and he goes crazy in China. And he comes back and he was he is very enlightened and you can be absolutely fucking crazy. That's just unimpeccability. So an enlightened person, enlightenment exists. It's an experience that is real, but you can also be powerful because of it, or you can be weak because of it, or you can be crazy because of it. Enlightenment just means that you let go of the self and you saw the bigger picture. But if you don't practice impeccability, then you get nowhere. You can be crazy, you can go down, you can go in horrible states of mind and exist in that place as an enlightened being in the horrible, crazy states of mind. So that's not this school. This school has structures, this school has a way, and this way is always up. If you're not practicing that, if you're blaming people, fuck you. You're the problem. If you're not doing the work, fuck you. You're never gonna get anywhere. Just quit. I'm not gonna, I don't want to do any work because now I'm enlightened. Quit. Quit. Quit everything. Quit everything in life and then examine your own whatever, create your own dojo and do whatever the fuck you want.

0:17:52
Dala, myself, and Sananda, when we became liberated,

0:17:57
and this is where this school came out of, it came out of Rama's school, but it's because we valued it. We supported the virtue of this school, and it became something super strong. And ST3s, you all saw it and anyone who worked with Mandala you saw Mandala is very powerful very impeccable and she doesn't take any shit off of no one and if you didn't do a good enough job she keeps going on herself. So So, Emerson said, there's nothing more central than the integrity of your own mind. When you are unimpeccable, you let yourself go into garbage mind, not integrity. It's not a condition of honor. It's a condition of just whatever the fuck you want, whatever the fuck you think. It's garbage. So enlightened people can make the worst mistakes of mind and exist in hell. Enlightened people can exist in hell. If you are not in, if you're gonna follow your craziness, if you don't have impeccability, you can exist as an enlightened person. A person who's been freed and then you can exist as a freed being in hell states of mind. And I know a lot of you have done that. That's not the practice of this school. This is an idea of you thinking you're free. This school has structures, ways, focuses. If you give them up, you're gonna experience hell. You think you're smarter? You get a black belt in karate and you think you're gonna go into you know the kumite into the big fight and you're and you're better than everybody else just because you got your black belt? Fuck you. You're an idiot. And I'm just saying that because that's what Sahasha said. Enlightened Ego, which is the opposite of enlightenment.

0:21:02
Don't do that.

0:21:08
Take all the lessons that made you the strongest in the school and move forward. Don't say now that I'm enlightened I know everything because you fucking don't. Now that I'm enlightened I'm just gonna do what I like to do and then you'll then you'll become weak. You're gonna go into ego enlightened ego and you're gonna go to you're gonna go into, you don't know better than Buddha, you just have some insight. Work with the structures. Work with the structures. Structures are stronger than yourself. So, I don't want you guys to indulge in stupid stuff. I don't want you to be honest with yourself and let go of any desire or any striving. I know you have a dojo. I know that you have a everything, whatever, wherever If you're enlightened, let go of striving. Let go of trying. And then come back to your enlightened mind and try to help. Because if you're caught up in, I'm gonna do something for myself, I'm gonna do something, you're caught up in a whole bunch of bullshit. Your whole ideas, your whole schemes, come on, just drop it. And then you have to say, what is the Dharma? Drop any idea, no attachment to it. What is the Sangha? The Sangha is so important. If you are an arhant and you can't help the Sangha, then fuck you and go and leave. Go and be your own Sangha and see what that is. No, if you can't help your people, if you're an Arhant and you can't help your people, then I would say fuck you. If you're an idiot. You don't care. You don't have any compassion and you just want to do whatever the fuck you want to do. You want to go into desire and you're an asshole. Wake up! I'm not kidding. Stop it. This should be a game changer for you, for you fucking ego enlightened idiot. If you don't get this, you know, I don't need to deal with this group. If you don't understand, if you don't get this, if you don't get this, you're not like Mandala, and you're not like Sananda. You're not like me you are a

0:25:17
Fucking lower

0:25:19
What we call it what's up, so how's that called it an Ego and Enlightened ego That's not my way. I go farther up from that and If you don't get this and if you don't act on this, you're gonna be at wherever you're gonna be. I'm really able to let go of any of you who want to go your own direction, make up your own enlightenment, make your own karate dojo, and now I'm the 10th degree black belt in my own dojo. And yet I'll come over with a real black belt and smash you. Don't be fake. Don't be fake. Be real. So I really want you to let go of the enlightened ego. I really want you to let go of falling into the samskaras. sanskaras. So huge sanskaras of women, women who are moksha, enlightened and also jealous. Jealous girls? Oh, is that what you want to bring to your enlightenment? Is that your testimony of enlightenment to teach others that you are jealous girls?

0:27:21
No. That is a samskara.

0:27:25
And you've pushed past it. But if you come back to that and say, I am a jealous girl, then shame on you. That's your choice. You can't blame it. Once you take responsibility for your life, no, you can't blame it on, because there's this really cute guy who likes these girls. And then, no, no, no, no, no. You have to say no. Don't be a jealous girl. That is one of the weakest indulgences of karma. And if that's what you want to express as your enlightenment, then please leave. Go and express it somewhere else. Don't be a part of this group. I don't want a group of super wimpy retards, people who don't care, people who are not impeccable. You know what, if you're not impeccable and you're enlightened and not impeccable, then leave this group and go work out your enlightenment in your own mind and figure it out.

0:28:46
But I'm for real.

0:28:50
Samvara is for real. Samvara doesn't fuck around. Samvara doesn't accept bullshit. Samvara doesn't accept when you're like, oh, well, I like my desire. I like my attachment. And I'm like, and you want to be in the enlightened group?

0:29:12
No.

0:29:13
I don't like that. No. Go. Leave. Leave. Don't be here. Do you know what I mean? There is this powerful point of I don't fuck around, I'm not going to accept bullshit and I also care for everyone who wants to be real. So do you guys understand? It's very important. I know that I'm pretty intense but I also have to say this. You know, showdowns are haunts. You could look at I want you to be enlightened and you have a whole idea, a whole view of your own enlightenment. You say to someone, you're enlightened. It's a pressure. You're pushing on them. I never did this to you. It's a pressure. You're saying, I'm going to tell you, you are enlightened and I see it and therefore it's true. Come on. It's too much for the other person. Agni Kala, they did not ask me. They were just all BAM! Push! Energy! They saw whatever they saw from their enlightenment and then they just saw my students and hit them with it. And if you guys can remember I was always like, oh my God, I have to fix this, I have to work on this after. Because they were hitting people with a level of attention and power that they were accustomed to that they liked. And it was super high. And I was developing you, and then you guys got hit with that. And you guys went crazy.

0:32:04
So we have to have care for each other.

0:32:09
We don't come on too strong. I mean, I think Kala and Shiva are great. They're great masters. They came on too strong. Don't, and here's a big thing about me, I don't come on too strong. Don't come on too strong. Don't come on too strong. Be easy, be supportive. I can sit there with someone who's trying to figure out their enlightenment and I'm like oh I don't have to give them a hundred percent of here's a way. I say hmm I am willing to be sitting with you with an open heart to go through whatever you need to go through. Do you guys get that? Don't push. Don't push someone. Don't push. Don't push someone. Let them experience their enlightenment. You're like, oh no, I see your enlightenment. I'm like, you push someone into a state. And then they come to me and they say, whoa, hey, an Arhant pushed me into, I am enlightened, what do you think? And I'm like, no, you're not. Thanks for them, because it pushes them backwards if you push me to answer that question, why did you do that? It hurts them. You say to them, I see your enlightenment because you see enlightenment and you see their Buddha nature. They don't reach it yet. And you say, now tell someone. And I say, this isn't, it's, it's a step, it's good. And I try to make it, it takes a lot of energy for me. I try to make it good and positive and everything like that. But you pushed them into something that they definitely didn't have an experience of because you saw their brooded nature and you push them at me. It hurts them, it slows them down. Don't do that. Isn't it? So I would like you guys to be impeccable.

0:35:14
Don't push too much.

0:35:15
Be balanced. Do you guys understand what I'm saying? This is very important.

0:35:19
Now, also,

0:35:21
I'd like to say that it's important for you to respect each other with the greatest respect. Respect each other as you respect me. Hmm, this person has an idea separate from mine, yet it is the most important consideration. So every one of you needs to care about each other, care about it. And 100% into you and anything about you. We have to care about each other. You have to have tremendous etiquette. If you if you fuck this up, and you're like, I don't like these people because they're weird, then you are the going to get ejected. I don't want to talk to you again. I want to talk to the people here who can figure out how to be together and care. And if you're angry and you might be the best angry person, get the fuck out of here. I'm sorry. How can we work together. So I want this group to be impeccable and not selfish. Every aspect unimpegability. Move forward. How can we move forward? How can we work together? Because anything stopping this, I will let it go. I will cut out a person who has their own idea. Be focused on the enlightenment of the group. And if you can't do that, then you can quit. I don't care where you go. You can go anywhere, quit, be weak, do your own thing, follow your own path. I don't care. But this is the path that is going to. As you can see amongst all sanghas of this school, these weak ass motherfuckers, with nothing, no power. I only want to work with the people who can bring it together, who can make something stronger. And if you can't do it, if it's not in your heart, leave. And I understand that. But leave. And I work with the people who have heart because I have heart. I'm for real and are you too? Can you meet me there in the reality of the biggest, most powerful thing that's going to help? Or are you going to say, no, I'm going to do my own like desire, stupid, me, me, me, stupid, whatever, attachment, stupid, okay cool you can do that you're not on my team. You're gone and I'm not happy with the production of you, Arhants. I think two-thirds of you are ridiculous and flakes, and it's not my place of enlightened activity you can just fuck off being a weirdo and it's not what I've seen with my great associates Sananda Mandala you guys are not doing that. You guys are doing bollocks, crap, garbage, junk. So if you want to follow, you want to be the enlightened one who goes to the end, great. There's people who've done that. They go crazy. Follow that. It's not my teaching. If you want to be for real, then grow up. Be strong. Lead the way. Lead the way. Are you leading the way? Are you sleeping through the way? That's an arhant. Are you for real? Lead the way. Be real, lead the way. Be strong, lead the way. Or just quit. Take a nap into pain. Drink a bowl. I don't care. I don't give a shit. I am gonna stand and live through powerful enlightened beings. You guys can go out there and go I'm enlightened and I'm gonna do everything I want to do. Fuck you. To me you're weak. That's weak music to me. I don't care. So do what you want to do. I'm only working with people who have honor and focus and power and honor as I taught in the last teaching. You have no honor? I never want to talk to you again and you can go and do everything that you want make your dreams come true and your teacher has no no honor for you. I don't have honor. Be honorable. Be powerful. Be impeccable. Okay. That's all I want to say. Thank you so much. Yes, sir, do you have a question?

0:44:00
Do you have time for a question somewhere?

0:44:03
Questions? Yes.

0:44:05
You don't understand what I'm saying? I do understand what you said.

0:44:10
Okay. Okay, if you want to ask me a question, ask.

0:44:13
Yes, thank you.

0:44:14
So, last week, a few of us mentioned that they feel that we exclude other showdowns. shodans. And so we started brainstorming about how to include them without pushing them, you know, like all of us, maybe get on a call, do a meditation.

0:44:37
No. Uh-uh. The question is not about shodans. The question is about you. Arhant, you are... Are you guys make... No, no, no. Forget the Shohans. Forget it. What are you? The enlightened teachers of this school. What are you doing to make everything happen? Fuck you. Don't go, I want to support a showdown. How do you make our sangha the best? By quitting, by stopping, by leaving, by doing whatever the fuck you want by stepping back by doing blah blah blah blah blah that's what you guys are doing. Showdons should wake the fuck up and support you but arhants are the awakened ones. Where's the enlightenment? Why does it take so long? Where's the enlightenment? Enlightenment of this group, the enlightened group to make the most enlightened council. And how many of you are working on it? Like 27% of the heart of our Hans are making the organization and you might be doing it a little bit and your heart's not in it so I would have to say our hunts 27% and you think that's gonna make a sangha so I would say fuck you. Fuck you. You're full of shit. You're unimpeccable and you're all into a whole bunch of shitty karmic self. Any other questions? And if that's what you guys want to do, as our haunts in this school, because guess what? This organization is not strong, it's weak. And the greatest people that are haunts are the weakest. If that's what you guys want to do, I'll accept it. I'll move on. And that's what you guys want to do? Then great! And guess what? I won't come back with more teachings. If that's what you guys want to do, I won't come back and help more. And you guys think, I'm already a black belt, so I should be more black belt in the future Yeah, good luck Without the teachings and if you don't do the work then fuck you so my last statement here is fuck you and That's it and Show me more if you If you want something more you are idiots you are unimpeccable all I see and I and ST3s if you guys are have a moment look at me look at Mandala and look at Sananda we were not idiots. This whole thing might fall down into nothing and I'll let that happen. If that's what your testament of enlightenment is, I'll let that happen. But ST3s, you knew, you stood with enlightened, impeccable students. And if the rest of these people don't get it, and if you don't get it, if you don't want to stand up, make a statement, well then, that's what's gonna happen.

0:49:25
Okay, interview over.

0:49:27
I still want to say more because I don't think that you guys understand how being totally in ego enlightenmentives.

0:49:58
I didn't do that.

0:50:00
Mandala didn't do that. There's so many, Svahasa didn't do that. We had enlightenment, but we didn't go into a whole bunch of ego stuff. And you guys are going into this whole thing that I never heard of before called the enlightened ego But you guys are all Going through this enlightened ego is garbage Samara yes, is that enlightened ego or just ego? well, I mean, it's ego, but this is what, you know, I never heard of that. I mean, Tara, remember when I said I'm enlightened? And remember when Mandala was enlightened and Sahaja was enlightened?

0:51:07
Yeah, you guys were normal.

0:51:09
We were not ego at all, right? Yeah. Because we were 100% focused impeccably on what's the next level to teach and to share and to bring people up, right? You were there, you saw that, right?

0:51:29
Of course. Yeah, you guys were normal. You were just focusing on Dharma, but I just wonder like why we go through so much ego. I mean, this just feels like simple ego, not enlightened ego. I don't want to like cover it over. We do like we go through some karmas and some skaras but maybe it's something that we need to work out but was keeping the sights on the highest dharma which is you know being in your school and developing the sangha and developing next generation of students it seems and developing a strong organization.

0:52:03
Well, that's the thing. It's like, you could be the weakest fucking enlightened person in the world who goes, I got my own little roof in my mind, and you can exist in that. And that's an enlightenment. not a stronger condition to exist in your sangha and to care and to bring impeccability and to love and to recognize that all of you, all of you, all of you are the greatest. I mean we need to respect each other. We need to never doubt anyone in this group. I have no doubt in anyone in this group. I will see you'll say this is my awareness and it could be very simple and I'll say hi I everyone here all of you you're all enlightened I see enlightenment in all of you, but please be stronger. We need to be stronger for the rest of the Sangha, not just for you. You're good, but come on, don't get stuck in good. Go more into selflessness. Every one of you go more into selflessness. happy, relaxed, completely bright state of mind. How can you help the people who are not there yet in our Sangha? Wake up out of your enlightened idea and be strong. Now we must respect each other with the greatest respect. I respect the enlightenment with you. I am so namaste. I am so namaste. When you have a name, I totally believe it. I don't have any critical idea. I totally believe every enlightened realization that you have. Okay, but we have to respect the Sangha. So if I'm in Bodhiwood, I can't just say, well I know three students in the Bay Area who I want to come to my teachings and I'm going to invite them and they're gonna come it's gonna be awesome. No you need to say hey I've recognized those students but I need to go to the sensei of that dojo. You never pull out someone from one dojo into your dojo because you say I have the scene and Sanse is what do you think? That's just something that you have to do that's called etiquette. We really respect each other. We respect each other. We don't just say hey I have a better idea for that student so I'm gonna do my own thing. Never. So if someone in the Bay Area wants someone in you know Bodywoods to come to a special teaching they have to say hmm is this person can this person come and ask the Abbotts and the Abbotts have to say yes but the abbots could say no because this person is not doing their job properly here. Their tonal in here is they're not doing a good job and I don't want them to go. So then they can't. You can't ask, you can't demand someone from a different dojo to do what you want from another dojo. Even if you see a really good Dharma, you have to ask, hey I know that you're in the Bay Area dojo and I want you to be able to do this. The Sensei might say, this person is doing a horrible job in my school, why would I want them to do something else? There has to be integrity. We have this organization, and if we don't work the structure of the organization, then no organization. Just drop it and just be idiots and do whatever the fuck we want. No, don't do that.

0:58:22
So we have to say, I'm in Bodie Woods. I want someone in the Bay Area who is

0:58:23
under the jurisdiction of those senseis. I want them to be able to come and do this, this, and this, and this. Cool. Ask those senseis and if those senseis say, Well that person's just not doing a very good job in our school So Structures have to work. Otherwise, why do we have any structures? Not just because of what you see and you think

0:58:50
We have to have structures so

0:58:53
If that person in the Bay Area Dojo is fulfilling their promise as a good student, going to all the teachings, doing all the stuff, boom boom boom boom boom, being a good member of that dojo. Because they live there and they are part of that. They live there. And then I want an extra for them to be able to come on this power trip or to a teaching in Body Woods. you better ask their sensei and their sensei goes yes they are doing everything they need to they're fulfilling everything they need here they're doing things right within this structure so they can get more but if they're like no doing a bad job they that sensei should say they're not doing so well here. I don't think an additional thing outside of their structure is going to be better for them. I don't agree with that. If someone is not doing a good job outside of their structure, they should not get extra or more. And you, as a additional teacher, should tell them, succeed in the structure you're in. Otherwise, why do we have structures? Drop them, forget them, and everyone go anarchy, and then nobody succeeds. So I would say, when someone says, I have a good student who I really like, we have a very good connection and it's within the Bay Area, well you're in a dojo. If you're not the dojo leader, even though you have a student, that student owns up to the dojo leader. First, they have to do all the things in that school all that structure and then you want to do a special like power trip with just that one student you can't take away from the Bay Area they have to say hey by the way on the solstice we're gonna do a trip and you're like you can't say I override you and want to take my student on a different trip. You can't do that. You have to be within that structure or show me how you can be your own sensei of your own dojo. But if you fall within a dojo, fall within that dojo, and you, a Shodan, an Arhant, show it on an art hunt, you need to live up to those standards that the sensei requires. You can't just say, I'm going to do whatever the fuck I want. I see enlightenment that way even though the Bay Area is that way. No, stop it. That is weak. That's weak, make your student strong in the structures of the dojo that they're in. And then if they're fulfilling all of those things, you can bring them into more. You can add to it. But if you're not strong enough to be a sensei, you cannot just tell a student, you don't have to do those things that those guys do because I'm enlightened and I want you to do this thing. No that is bad etiquette. That's poor focus and that's not right. There's a bigger picture. The Sangha org is the biggest picture and if you are going ad Dharma crazy self-ness and I will come against you and I will crush you with the Dharma. So no don't be a goofball that's not impeccability. Impeccability is to see what is powerful powerful and for us to say the Sangha the org it's powerful how do I make my people of influence follow that energy that power I don't just make up my own thing in in enlightenment you don't just make up your own thing. You lead by following enlightenment. You lead by following the Tao. You lead by following what is powerful and enlightened. Come on guys wake up it's time to stop being idiots don't do too much chill out don't do too much don't push so much like don't push so much if you're an arhant chill out be still instead of pushing just be still just be still and if your stillness next to a person is strong, they will realize things, you don't have to tell them. They will realize things. Don't push so much, let it go. Farah, when I observed you, Mandal and Sananda,

1:05:27
it was like you guys were gunning for enlightenment

1:05:30
and you were gunning for it for everybody else but you were doing it within Rama's structures and you weren't trying to reinvent the wheel. And you were just building those structures stronger.

1:05:49
I really appreciate that you mentioned that Bodhidharma. Don't try to reinvent the wheel. Like really. If you do that you're probably going to make a lot of mistakes. It's just really keep to the basics that you've learned. Don't try to go way off over here way off over there. You guys it's really embarrassing when you tell a student, oh I think you're enlightened and you should be enlightened. I know that you guys see the Buddha nature in them but then they come to me and they're like I'm confused because I'm angry and confused and have so much trouble but this arhant told me I am enlightened and I'm like you're obviously not don't do that to people and you send them to me god damn it like don't like I am glad that you see enlightenment in everyone, but you don't have to make everyone enlightened. Like, share what you can share, but don't push people. They get so confused when you say, I believe this, come on, don't do that to them. Don't push people into enlightenment. Except that all of the Bodons are going through whatever they need to go through and Bodons are awesome. Every single Bodon is fully you know empowered and they might take until the end of their lifetime to to realize their liberation and whatever they have to do it might be the most powerful thing. They don't have to become enlightened right now and maybe it's at the end of their life and they become much more enlightened. So don't push them. Seeing their enlightenment is good, caring about them, sharing, but don't push anyone into enlightenment it's too much and i and i appreciate that you guys care that you're trying that you're sharing and and i i want you to push someone in a harmful way. Okay that's what I have to say I really hope that all in every moment be harmless be open see the light see the truth act from that don't be an idiot. You act like idiots and you become weak. You show them, I'm weak. I could act like that, but that's not impeccable. And I am impeccable. I am strong and powerful. I am not a wimp. So stop acting weak. I can ask Sue a question. Really, I'll sue. I'm not sure. I don't have clarity on this, but what is this thing that comes up with me? And she'll say, she'll give me some insight. But if I go, Sue, I don't know anything. I'm so stupid. I'm lame.

1:10:12
When you do that,

1:10:13
you give up your responsibility for your personal power. And when you do that to like these other advanced students, they don't think you're enlightened. They don't believe in your enlightened and then you turn your conversation into something totally different. Everyone on this call, you have a liberation experience that I want you to make that the root of your spiritual expression. That way you can get into higher enlightenment. But if you're unimpeccable and just a big goofball and if you're everything that you do is like going back to karmas, wimpiness, if you're gonna be weak and not take responsibility for your life, then talking to advisors backs up limitation and weakness. They see you as weak, they see you as unenlightened, and then that will, those great advisors will create that vision for you. You'll go from an enlightened experience to an experience where you go, I can't be enlightened, and then they'll give you lots of reasons why. So don't do that unless you want to do that. If you want to do that then you're gonna have a lot of trouble. Okay thank you all. I hope you understand. I hope you guys listen to me. It's really important because you know for me I could whine like crazy about everything about the self I just don't want to drink a whole bunch of molten lava. And I could also tell you that I don't need to go to Su or Maat or Agni Kala or Shiva for anything. I can say I love all their insights. I might ask them questions to get insight. I don't count on them. I believe in myself. And I say when I meditate, that's the brightest, greatest experience. Every one of you, it has to be you. Your meditation, your insight has to be the most perfect. Now when I was with Rama, his was the best and the brightest. I don't need anybody else. I don't need Padmasambhava or Krishna. I'm like, no, me, my meditation. That's where I find the highest thing ever. So stop trying to look outside of these people and go, hey, I'm a fucking idiot. Hello, what do I do? If you're going out to these teachers like that, God damn it, fuck you. You're stupid as shit. And you're not being responsible. I could ask Ma a question too, but I won't ask out of unimpeccability. I will ask her out of power. Ask questions out of power. I mean, you're liberated, so accept your liberation. And say, of course there's always more to learn, but when I ask you I'm not going there's something missing Sue there's something missing but I don't know what to do stop that stop that wake up and say I'm awakened and yet I want to be stronger so what about this thing then Sue will give you some advice and it will make you stronger. And Sue will say, that's a powerful person.

1:14:55
Same thing with Maat.

1:14:57
Don't be weak. Stop being weak. Stop being a fucking loser. It's so sad to me that Maat thinks you guys are enlightened losers. So stop that. Stop being an enlightened loser.

1:15:10
You can change it.

1:15:11
She'll totally accept it she she's not gonna be attached to a view but stop being a fucking lame-ass okay I'm out of here thank you guys so much till next time here thank you guys so much till next time

1:15:33
Bye.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
