0:00:00
Okay, so I'd like to talk about some important aspects of yoga, of the Maha-Mandala and of enlightenment. But we have very specific practices in our karma yoga and they get very very particular, where you see enlightenment in all things. And then you see a lot of things. So this means that it's extremely important to be able to see a dimension of enlightenment. If you can't see that, if you can't feel that, there's no connection, then you're nowhere. So if there's no enlightenment in your life, that's like most of the world I guess. They're just stuck in a whole bunch of karma. But when you have an awakened, authentic school that you're connected to and you have an enlightened enlightened senseis, many enlightened yoga leaders, then there's a lot of awakening. But you have to be able to connect to light. That is the first and the foremost important thing for a student to do on the pathway to enlightenment, is to connect to enlightenment. And once you do that, you create a connection, an awareness, where your mind or your heart, your spirit goes into the light. And you know, in the beginning it's like, oh, kind of good, a little bit. But as long as you keep working on it, it becomes very, very strong. But even in the beginning, with a little bit of awareness, your spirit coming from the world of self and karma starts to connect with the dimension of light. Now eventually you want to be able to make that connection of light very, very powerful in your meditation practice. That means that you meditate every day, you develop focus and concentration.

0:02:52
And more than that, I mean that's important, but you open yourself to light, to luminosity, to the transient energy that lifts you, liberates you. So it's very important to be able to connect to a dimension of light. Now this is the most important thing, connection with light. But then after that, we start to develop that light in many places in our lives. So we start to develop many dimensions of light where we connect in the desert, in satsangs, in meditation. You connect with your teacher, your mentor, your sensei, your yoga leader. There's places where you say, wow, there's something liberating about my yoga leader. There's some power that has that's bright for me. And you have to forge those connections. You have to see beyond the self. You have to work sometimes in yoga or martial arts or try when you're sitting out here meditating in the desert. And then you go from the desert from meditation to martial arts to scuba diving to music all sorts of different ways in our life we start to open our mind to the enlightenment in our lives. And we have lots of disciplines of enlightenment where we can hold structured dimensions of power and light. So we go from one, you have to see the light in something, an enlightened teacher, the enlightened teaching, the Dharma, the Sangha, you have to see the light. And then two, you have to develop it.

0:05:21
And then three, you have to go into deep levels of development. You can't just be like, I see it a little bit here and there. We're a school of discipline. That means that we become really strong in computer programming so that we can get like a job at Apple. You have to really, really work really hard. Nothing comes easy. Enlightenment doesn't come easy. It doesn't just fall on you. You're like, I'm a millennial so I should You guys have got to code that. Figure out how to code that. Then it will come. Thank you. But no, you have to work really hard. You have to really, really, really, really develop your mind through these disciplines. And then there is tremendous power. Tremendous tremendous and in so many ways. So recently Siena and Sita, they just got their Jiu-Jitsu black belt. Very, very, very strong, very beautiful. Yeah, right on the cusp of this trip. So it's very, very strong. So they're going from learning martial arts to being black belts. And they're very good. Very excellent.

0:06:56
And then also then there's then there's Raja who got his fourth degree black belt in our karate, our jiu-jitsu, shuriken karate, taekwondo, and also the recent black belt that he got is krav maga. I think that's it, right? There could be more. Anyway, but the thing is in our school, the way that we would practice is like, hey, if you, you know, we don't just go into one martial art, we actually learn lots of martial arts, because we want to learn lots of dimensions of martial arts. So by him learning all of these different dimensions, he's able to show lots of different things in martial arts. And actually, Raja, what I'd like, I'd like you to give a demonstration to the sangha. I mean, not like right now, they wouldn't hardly notice it. But I'd like you to create a video where you show, you know, let's say four different attacks, and then the ways that you use multiple styles, like in your test, like that's what you did.

0:08:23
But I'd like you to show it and actually describe it so that people in the Sangha could see what the upper belts, we have a few 4th degree black belts, what the upper belts actually do in the acumen of their martial art awareness. So I think that would be something really strong. So, you know, Raja got his fourth degree black belt and he put it all together. And I'd like him to be able to demonstrate it and give it instruction to everybody to show this is what top black belts in the school are doing. And it's pretty cool.

0:09:11
So these are where we have depth. We go, oh, I'm going to work on being a computer programmer. You get your first computer programming job and you're like, okay, cool, I did it. No, you got to keep going. That happened with me. I remember I got my first couple contracts, you know, back in the 90s in New York and I was making you know 50 bucks an hour and I was like wow this is awesome like I'm driving a Lexus, I'm living in a good apartment, like it was like super cool, so I was happy. Then my teacher was like hey he's like you gotta you gotta get to the next level. I was like but why? I'm totally fine here and he's like no you have to keep pushing it and I was like, oh, okay. So then he is like, the next level should be 75 an hour. And I was like, whoa, that is impossible. I guess I have to do it. And I did it in two weeks. And then he is like, okay, cool. And then that just sparked me. And I was like, oh, just keep going. And I kept going with my black belts, with my martial arts. I kept going deeper, deeper, deeper, stronger, stronger, stronger, higher, higher, higher in these dimensions.

0:10:29
So when you get into learning a new dimension, like martial arts, like career, you have to keep going into it. You keep going. You get stronger. So one is the first awareness of light, the connection with enlightenment. And then two is working on many dimensions of your life, the most important dimensions, which is probably like career meditation, mindfulness, bodhicitta, you know, like the things that we do in martial arts, these are very strong things that we do. And then three, go deep into all of those, go deep into your meditation, go deep into your martial arts, go deep into your career. And then we get to another awareness where we start to become aware of the multiple dimensions of connection. So this is where you get to another level in your programming or your martial arts. So, or anything, meditation. So you are like, okay, so I am programming. And then another realization happens. You are like, I am dealing with multiple dimensions here in my programming. So in programming you could deal with ten dimensions in a very simple program or a hundred or a thousand. I remember I was working at a big Wall Street firm. Too big to fail.

0:12:36
And this was before they were too big to fail before they knew that. And then I was the the database admin and I knew all the tables of like car insurance which was like 1400 tables just knew it all and every L the developers were like hey how do I get this data I'm like here's how you get it better better better I just knew it it was all in my mind a connection of so many things in a related connection and then in programming sometimes there's related things and there's functional things. There's also some amazing things that you develop as a programmer. It develops your mind. It's a whole bunch of dimensions put into balance, made into perfect music and delivered to enlighten you. So the music Music yoga is exactly, precisely the Maha Vandala. Now, when we come to, just going to share with you guys the advanced aspects of things.

0:14:18
Multiple dimensions at the same time. And that is that we go from just trying to meditate on light, which is very important, and that's what you should all be able to do perfectly. And then you go to a condition where you can meditate on multiple dimensions of light at the same time. Which I know sounds so crazy, but that's what they do and it goes on and on and on and on and it goes from a few dimensions to a few more dimensions to many dimensions. So it's very important that you focus on your work and if your work is a very simple thing just do it super impeccably. And step by step, you're able to grow in impeccability and focus to many different levels of attention. So this is, you know, like the pathway, lots But little by little. When I talk about multiple dimensions, let's consider Avalokiteshvara, the great Bodhisattva of compassion.

0:15:50
And these hands go out into the universe to help people who are in suffering. And Avalokiteshvara has great compassion and great awareness and brings that compassion and help to the right places out of nowhere. And that's just tremendous. So many of my students have had experiences, probably, Shodhans, of a thousand dimensions of compassion. We've talked about compassion, we've meditated on compassion, we've had so many considerations of compassion. And then there's all these times where there was this one instance and then another one and then you learned a little bit more and then there's something completely different.

0:17:00
And that's that these are all the hands of Avalokiteshvara. It's compassion in all the right places to help and share. Share the way of Dharma and help people with their suffering. And to hold all those dimensions in your mind. To be aware of that at all times. To share suffering, to bring bodhicitta and compassion to every situation that you've ever seen. These are, and to hold that in your mind and to be aware of that, all of its, you know, living suffering, compassion dealing with the living suffering. That is holding many dimensions in your mind. So these are the things that we work through as yogis. We work through lots of dimensions. You'll just maybe look at a tanka or a mandala that's a picture and you'll start to memorize what those things are. You're like, oh, this picture means this.

0:18:33
This picture has got lots of little beings and all these beings mean these different things and they're holding different things, and they have different powers, and they come from different worlds. You start to learn what those things are, and you develop your mind through that. And then you can access the dharma and the dimensions. Here, what we do is we just program computers in a selfless way. And we also access the same things. It's just the Americana way and not the kind of ancient way of many dimensions. In our first talk we talked about what we call the basic or the fundamental, I don't want to call it basic, it's very important aspects of how we develop. This is how every yogi develops here. Someone starts off coding, Hello World, and they end up coding a Google. You know? Or people will start off in very basic ways, martial arts, and then become a black belt.

0:20:32
And this is what we do here. We develop ourselves in deep ways in the dimensions of power and enlightenment. And then we are also able to hold many, many dimensions of enlightenment open in compassion, and support for sangha, in ways of the Dharma. So I'd like to sit with you, just for two or three minutes, but to focus on the third And in this focus, it's just another intention of understanding and intention of seeing the mandala. All right, let's begin. I'm going to go ahead and get the camera.

0:21:49
Okay. Okay, wonderful. Very good. Thank you. Alright, those were some very important teachings about yoga and the big picture of yoga. And now we're going to go into a really beautiful thing. So I talked about, you know, we have a couple new black belts and then also Raja came to his fourth degree black belt. This is a very strong thing. There are a lot of things that unfold as you do yoga. It can happen just from meditation, but it usually happens when you do something super powerfully selfless, things that happen in yoga.

0:24:44
What happens is you move yourself beyond your personal karma, and then you get a spiritual name. So a spiritual name comes when it just ain't right to call you whatever, Jack or Jill, it's like you've changed so much, you've become a yogi, you've been so selfless, you've done something so amazing that it just doesn't make sense to call you that old name. So tonight we're going to have some people come up and give spiritual names. They're going to be, I'm your mentor or I'm your sensei, I'm your abbot and I'm going to tell you, you know, you've changed, you've transformed and I have a seeing of what your name is. And it's something beyond your karma name. You know, I remember me, I got borned, and then I got a name. I'm like, my dad named me. You know, like, your name's going to be Duffrey.

0:25:53
Like, seriously, dad? Is that the best you can come up with? I would like to be named Ace or Danger or something. Anyway, I don't know. Jeffrey. Jeffrey. My fault. Okay, and then, oh by the way, it's like Father's Day. You guys notice that? Yeah, okay.

0:26:20
Did you guys call your father? Did you call your father? Call your father. Call your father. You should do it. I called my father today. And Father's Day is the funniest thing. It is like, what is Father's Day? It is the day we go, oh, salute to the dad. But then here is the thing. I saw on the internet, it is like out of all the holidays of the year it's like number 20 but then you know if you look at Mother's Day it comes right after Christmas Thanksgiving and New Year's then there's Mother's Day then it's the 4th of July which is the 5th right so I'm like oh whoa why is Father's Day way lower than Mother's Day? Man dads just Dad's just can't get it straight or they just don't get a lot of props.

0:27:19
So I was like, oh man, it's kind of messed up. But, you know, you know, you got to remember it anyway. You're like, Mother's Day, you're on it, right? And then Father's Day, you're out. Oh yeah, there's that thing I have to do. Hey, Dad, nothing. You just call him and say, Hey Dad, thanks for being like, Dad. Yeah, so, I find this funny. It's like, Father's Day comes in like a few under Arbor Day? And are those like some trees or something? But I kind of don't actually know. I like Arbor, I like trees, tree day, but I'm all, but is, you know, dad's like four down from tree day.

0:28:19
I like dad and trees. It's kind of funny. It kind of cracks me up. So anyway, I called my dad and I said, I was like, hey dad. And he's all, hey son. And I'm like, now I know why it comes with 20. I don't know which son they got. Thanks, Dad. So, you know, it's just the way it is. So I was given a name when I was born. It was a karma name. And then I said, that's who I am but eventually I got to a place in spirit that transcended that karma name and to call me Joffrey is just ridiculous. If you call me Joffrey I'll make fun of you. Why did you call me Joffrey? Do you want to compete in English accents?

0:30:03
I'll destroy you. I'll destroy your navy. Something like that. I'll do something like that. So, yeah. This is the way it goes. So, what we're going to do now, we're going to, some mentors, some senseis, some abbots, some yoga leaders have had a seeing of the name beyond the karma of students. And they shared it with me and I said, oh yeah, that's a really good thing. It's a very powerful momentum. So we're going to have people come up and share these things, share their seeings, share their awareness of someone's name that is beyond their karma, their spiritual name that is a boon and a direction and a teaching of their pathway to enlightenment.

0:31:14
Okay, thank you all so much. Paul, do you want to start? And if Debbie, Ron, and Sinyada could line up on the side, that would be very helpful. Hi everybody. So I have a couple of names today for my ladies in white. The first one is Leslie Savvy. And Leslie's new name is Vera Wakshmi. Lakshmi that represents bravery and overcoming obstacles in this life. And the second one is Han. And Han is now Durga, who is a wrathful goddess of compassion. Thank you. All right.

0:32:10
Hi, everyone. I, too, have a couple of names to announce. The first is Kate Bailock, formerly known as Kate. Kate's name is Gaia is the goddess of earth energy. And she is the embodiment of that female creation energy. And that is my mom's spiritual name. She is here with us in spirit, formerly known as Trish. Many of you have met her and Devi. And yes, Varahi Devi is one of the seven mother goddesses and she is the embodiment of female Shakti and also the counterpart of Vishnu, which we've heard is very much So she's a very powerful goddess and I'm very blessed to be her daughter. Aloha.

0:34:27
I have one name to announce. formerly known as Svetlana Yashina. Her new name is Swasti. Swasti is the aspect of Lakshmi as well. The embodiment of abundance, wellness, beauty and balance. Thank you. I also have one name to announce. Sophie Yu, not gonna pronounce your last name right, but Sophie, you, your spiritual name is Abhidharma. It means the teachings of the Dharma, the teachings of enlightenment, basically enlightenment. Beautiful. Next up on our wonderful mandala program, I'd like to invite Shen to the stage to talk about teaching. Hey everybody, hey everybody, my name is Albert and today is Father's Day.

0:36:33
So I called my dad and he's like, you already called me.

