0:00:00
Hi everyone. Good morning, good evening, good afternoon. Thank you for joining this call, our meeting that we're going to have today on self-care and self-compassion. There was going to be a meeting, we just wanted to create a space to raise awareness about self-compassion because we're all showdowns here, so we know all the teachings and all the techniques but we wanted to create a space to raise awareness about self-compassion and self-care and have some time to meditate together. going to the solstice maybe with this consideration of compassion for ourselves. So we are going to do a little bit of meditation and then a little bit of reflection and maybe a little bit of writing. So if you can, please pull out a pen and paper so we can do some writing together. And really, we're just going to spend this hour in this space to reflect on the good, the bad, and the beautiful. And let's start with a one-song meditation on the heart. And this is to open our hearts to ourselves. So let's begin.

0:01:30
the the the the the the the Thank you. the the the the the the the the the Thank you.

0:04:04
So if you'd like to turn your camera on for this event, please do. And I have a few exercises for us to do together and after that we can chat some if you'd like. So at Showdowns we've been in this school for a very long time, some of us over 10 years, 20 years maybe. And we talk a lot about self-confession. I mean we talk a lot about compassion in the school, but we don't talk a lot about self-compassion. And our compassion practice should start with self-compassion, compassion directed towards ourselves, but what we've seen is that a lot of people, a lot of us, direct compassion outward. So, this is a space where we can really contemplate on directing compassion inward towards ourselves first. And there's a few things that I'm going to bring up and it might not be relevant for you and then good for you, but we can do a little bit of reflection on some of those and other things that you may notice in yourself in just a little bit. So what we've noticed with Shodans is that we very often, we've been in the Sangha for so long and done so much, all of us, all of us here, you know, with our participation, with just being present and being here in the school, that we often forget or ignore self-care and or we just kind of dismiss it. And what seems to happen to a lot of us is that we get into these patterns where we beat ourselves up for not doing enough, not being enough, and similar things. And if we do come back to the core of the practice, it does start with self-compassion. So let's come back to that together. people I've talked to, people that the Sangha have interacted with, and just in general it seems that a lot of Shodhans don't take care of themselves or know how to. So what we're going to do in this brief hour is we're going to discuss and explore self-compassion a little bit and also some self-care which hopefully will make it a bit more fun, but this is not a Dharma talk, okay? But it's mainly to raise awareness. So we have this in the West and in the school, we always push, right? We're always in action. And we tend to, some of us may tend to fall into these patterns of we're not good enough, we're not doing enough, we're not pushing enough. So let's take a step back from that together and really look at our own narratives. And actually, in the second part, we're going to explore and acknowledge what we do well, that we are enough. So yes, there's this culture of not being good enough, but besides that, as time goes by and as the longer we spend in the school, on the path, and being, you know, present in our life, we might also notice that we, and as we age, that we encounter physical limitations. And some of us are dealing with illnesses. Some of us are dealing with severe illness and have been for a long time. So as time goes by, these things are inevitable. And most of us are not 30 or 20 anymore. And what we have to recognize is that this is part of life. So I've seen numerous people deal with physical limitations and severe illnesses as well and learn to live with them. And I've seen them struggle. We've seen each other struggle through these things. But what we often don't acknowledge is that when somebody faces these limitations, let's say, for example, I can't do martial arts anymore, like I used to 15 years ago, it's just a fact of life. And when we see these things, what we don't see, and I think what we don't acknowledge is that, and it's very clear if you look at the long term, that when you're dealing with physical limitations, you actually expand into different dimensions and you become very strong. Maybe you don't do martial arts anymore or you never did, but you expand and especially people who are dealing with severe illnesses, they expand and they become very strong and they become very powerful in different dimensions of life and of just these powers growing them. So I want to point out that this is a thing that even if you notice that you can't maybe do everything you want to or that you were able to do before, there's other things that you may do which may not be in the physical that are extremely powerful.

0:11:33
Yeah. Um, yeah.

0:11:37
And then, so from an emotional aspect,

0:11:41
what I noticed is that we dismiss our needs. So especially senior students, we dismiss our own needs because we focus on the sangha and things come up in our lives. We take care of elderly parents, we take care of children, we take care of our community and the world around us, and it just draws our attention away from basic self-care. And then when we feel like we don't do enough for them, for others, then we get into this vicious cycle of, oh, it's not enough what I do, and we completely forget about ourselves. So this is a good time to acknowledge that too. And then another thing that we've noticed is inaccessibility. So with inaccessibility, we actually hide our faults and our weaknesses. And this creates a tension in us. I have a friend who told me that when they became, when they started feeling not so well, they were trying to do it all on their own, take care of themselves and manage their job and everything. And they said, the moment I dropped inaccessibility and I reached out to people, I felt so much better. So something to consider. Another thing that we tend to get into a pattern of is an inability to create boundaries. Some of us don't have this issue. Some of us have this issue and it hurts us. So inability to create boundaries or doing that in an unhealthy way and an inability to say no. And I think this is an important aspect of self-compassion and self-care to understand where your boundaries are, where our boundaries are, and respectfully tell the people around us this is all I can do and not more. And people who create healthy boundaries tend to be much more cheerful and much more balanced. So speaking of balance. So we're gonna do a couple more meditations, which hopefully will help us come back into balance. And often we spin out so much that we don't even use our basic tools. And this is true for me, for sure, where we don't handle stress very well. So how can we give compassion to others when we don't have enough of it for ourselves,

0:14:30
right?

0:14:31
Okay, so we're gonna, before we move on, we're gonna give ourselves a big hug. But this is gonna be actually a series of sequences of little exercises that will kind of wake up our energy in a different way. So we can start and let me see, hopefully you can see me better. So let's give ourselves a big hug in the present moment. Take a deep breath. And then we're going to give ourselves a different kind of hug. So we're going to put our arms under our, our hands are under our arms. And this is actually, we're holding the spleen acupuncture points under our armpits, which are right under the armpit. So we're going to hold that. And the spleen actually manages the, the fluid movement in the body, including lymph and that carries hormones and stuff. So when we hug ourselves and take two deep breaths,

0:15:40
then we're actually activating those points.

0:15:42
And then just to be completely aligned,

0:15:45
we're gonna do this cross movement. So we're gonna hold our shoulder

0:15:49
and we're gonna pull our hand across our body and down the other side, just a few times so this aligns our left and right side so if we're having it on the you know like our brain is we're heavily using the left side or the right side of our brain this kind of just matches it up okay very good and now we're gonna wake up the heart by dumping on our thymus gland so the thymus gland is right behind your sternum. Yes, and we're going to say knock, knock. Hello, good morning. Anybody there? We can use two hands to tap on your thymus. On one hand. So this actually wakes up the immune system. And this is a very good stress response. I do this a lot while I'm driving in traffic. I get bad news. I'm like, oh, oh gosh. So you can actually do this and people do this by nature to like, oh my God, really? Like, yeah, just tap it, tap your diamond's gland, your sternum, your chest bone, and that wakes up your immune system. So the tapping is actually good for your immune system. Okay, and now we're gonna put our hands on our heart and take a couple of deep breaths and just getting in touch with our heart. And then we're gonna do this thing that I call the oh my god oh my god okay so we're gonna do oh my god and then we're gonna actually push our hand up towards our ear and slide it down on your neck and to your shoulders. And we're going to do this a few times. While we breathe. So this actually moves the limbs. So right now we're moving the limbs and you don't have to push very hard at all But it actually moves the limbs and Helps you, you know, just kind of align and release stress. So this actually stress One more time and Then we're gonna do another oh my god. So this is the you know when people go. Oh my god So we're gonna do it a little differently. So watch me first. So we're going to put our hand on our eyeball, gentle pressure, take a breath in, and then, I hope you're still watching, and then breath out, we're going to move our hand towards, to the temple, take a breath in, and release. And then we're going to trace our ear up, breath in, down behind the ear and all the way down to the neck and to the heart. Okay, so let me show this again. So, eyeball, out the temple, trace the ear, and actually we're going to hang on the shoulder for one breath, and then slide our hands to the temple, the breath, and then trace your ear up, and toward in the back, and hang on your shoulder, breath in, and then slide your hands to the heart. And let's do this just one more time. So our hands on eyeball, out to the temple, trace the ear up and down in the back, hang on the shoulder, and then down to the heart. Okay. Okay, thank you for doing that with me. So now, and you can check in with yourself and see how you feel, like how your energy, if your energy shifted at all. So now I recommend to take out the pen and paper, and if you don't have, grab one. And we're going to do a couple minutes, just a couple minutes of a writing exercise. So this exercise is about negative self-talk. So this is not stuff we, this is our own narrative, this is not stuff we say about each other or other people, but the stuff we say about ourselves that's negative, that's heavy, that is, you know, limiting patterns of self-preservation, where we feel stuck. These are the shoulds. So identify the shoulds. I should do this, I should do that, I'm not good enough because of this, that, and the third thing. And we're looking for repeat patterns and narratives in our own mind. So whatever comes up for you right now, and it doesn't have to be an all-inclusive list, just whatever comes up right away in the next, let's say, two to three minutes. So this is narrative that shapes our negative awareness of ourselves and where we have tension, so tension that you recognize. So some examples are, you know, I'm so tired I need to go to sleep but I should do one more hour of yoga, and then I feel bad if I don't. Or I need to exercise, but I don't make time for it, and then I feel bad. Or I need to go visit someone because they need help, but I don't have time for dinner. Basic things. So things that cause conflict and negative self-talk. So let's take two minutes Do 3 minutes to jot down whatever comes up. you

0:22:04
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

0:23:41
Okay, so with all of that out on paper, with all this happiness, let's give ourselves a big hug.

0:24:31
Hug it all in and take a deep breath. And then let's do the holding the time, this clean point, so hands under the armpit, take a deep breath. So these are regulating exercises. These are exercises that tell your immune system that it's okay. And then let's tap on our thymus. It's okay. And then let's just hold our hand on our heart. Yes, this is the meeting, Kali goes all hippie on everybody. And then let's do the, oh my God, the lymph clearing, which is up, hold your face and down the side of your neck and out the shoulder. Yep. One more time. And then we're gonna do the oh my god on the eyes. So hands on your shoulder and slide your hands down to your heart.

0:26:07
Okay.

0:26:08
All right, so we're going to continue with our exercise and we're going to do a little bit more writing. So if your dearest friend, your most beloved, actually told you the things that you wrote down, how would you react? What would you say to them? What would you tell them? What would you do with them? How would you react? Would you give them a hug? Would you tell them it's okay? Would you show them some compassion? Take them for a walk or to a nice dinner? Would you offer to talk to them about it? How would you provide support? So write down all the things of how you would react if this was your dearest friend that told you all the things that you wrote down, all the negative things that you put on paper. So what would be your reaction? So I would do this, I would tell them this. I would hold their hand, I would give them a hug, whatever it is. So let's take just two minutes to write down some things.

0:27:22
Bye. Thank you. Bye. Okay. Okay, so now that we have a little bit of a list, let's just reflect on taking all of that kindness, all of that compassion, and directing it to ourselves. So all the things you wrote down for all the things that are painful, directed all the

0:28:21
things you would offer someone else, offer it to yourself. So, you know, do unto yourself as you would do unto others, as you would want others, as you would want to do unto others. So this is the, let's bring it back to ourselves. So, you know, if you would give someone a hug, then, you know, give yourself a hug mentally right now or after this call just tell yourself it's okay uh tell yourself we're going out to dinner tonight um or you know whatever it is that that you would do um for someone that you really really care for and um as we direct this kindness back to ourselves i'd like to do another meditation so again this is going to be a one song meditation and let's hold all of this kindness in our mind and in our heart for ourselves in this meditation. So it's going to be one song. All right, so let's bring the focus to the heart on ourselves and let's begin.

0:31:08
so Thank you. you the the the so you So, the the the the Alright, final exercise, I promise. So now let's write down all the things that you do do, that you do well and that you want to acknowledge yourself for.

0:33:15
So this is the exercise of I'm great at, I do all this stuff, even if nobody thanks you, even if you don't thank yourself, just start writing it down. So acknowledge all the things that you do, even if you don't do them well, everything, the good stuff. So this is where the good stuff has to come out of you, so that we can do a full circle. And be honest and really reflect on, hey, there's actually a lot of stuff I do. I take care of people around me. I take care of myself. I take care of my house. I take care of my dog. I wake up on time and show up to work every day. Good for me. Thank you, me. Thank me. You know, the hard stuff, the extra hours you put in, the compassion you show, all of it. So let's find out. Bye.

0:36:49
you Bye. Thank you. Thank you. All right, the list goes on.

0:39:23
Be sure to continue the list after our time together is up today. But we're going to give ourselves a hug one last time. And this is just so maybe you guys remember at least one or two of these techniques next time you feel overwhelmed and hopefully you never do and then you can teach others. Okay, and then let's cross our energies again, so from left to right, left shoulder down across, and right shoulder across. And let's tap our thymus, our immune system's probably very happy at this point already. Knock knock, who's there? Let's hold our heart.

0:40:31
Let's do that.

0:40:36
Oh my god. It actually feels really nice to hold your own place. and down the neck and out the shoulder.

0:40:49
And again,

0:40:50
and up and then down the side of your neck

0:40:53
and up the shoulder.

0:40:55
Couple more times. One last time, with your face, push your palms up and then down the side of the neck. And let's do that oh my god on the eyes. Oh my god I'm holding my eyes. Deep breath in and then hang on your shoulder for a breath. And then come down to your heart.

0:41:56
Okay.

0:42:00
So again, checking with yourself how your energy is. We're stirring up a lot of good stuff here. So let's do one final meditation for one song on the heart. And just sit without attachment. Let's sit with compassion or without compassion, but without the pain. So without nothing. Just sit with yourself and let's sit with the good, the bad and the beautiful and just the totality of your entire experience of yourself. So there's no attachment, there's no acceptance, there's just the totality of everything. So let's sit for one song.

0:42:48
one song.

0:42:49
the the the the the the the the the the the so the the the the the the the so so so the the the the you

0:46:07
Alright, well thank you everybody for going on this journey into self-compassion and I hope everybody can find some moments of self-care driven by self-compassion going forward and I'd love to hear from you if you want to do breathing exercise together more tapping, we can do that too so yeah, please, please share, please ask yeah, I think you can unmute yourself too, Ashna

0:48:49
Hello. Thank you, Kali, for helping create this space to discuss this and to consider beginning about, you know, just, you know, people dealing with, you know, illnesses, or, you know, difficulties with their physical body. I think I felt like you left out some topics that have been

0:49:25
very close and dear to my heart lately, which are mental illness, substance abuse, addiction, and burnout.

0:49:41
Yeah.

0:49:42
Yes, for sure. These are things that can sneak up on people.

0:49:47
And I just want people to have the space to, you know, acknowledge that if they

0:49:57
have those kinds of problems that it can be addressed.

0:50:07
Thank you, Arjuna, for bringing that up. We can definitely talk more about that, but we're going to need a panel to carry that talk. And I think we should, because a lot of us are struggling. And I think it's very important to actually start acknowledging that we're struggling and what we're struggling with. That's the first step. And this is not supposed to solve, woohoo, I love myself from now on, so that's not the purpose of this talk. But really, to create awareness for ourselves, but also to acknowledge what we do well and what we're good at. Because we're a complete being, all of us, and we all have difficulties. And sometimes it's a phase and sometimes it's a permanent difficulty that we just live with. So thank you, Ajna, for bringing that up. do more forums, panels, and maybe hopefully get together in larger groups and have discussions around this. Yes, Shori. Thank you, Kali. This is really beautiful. I just wanted to say that I really appreciate that you talked about inaccessibility and learning to become more refined with that, because I think we've all kind of learned that we don't want to push our problems on another person, but there's an aspect to being vulnerable with each other with the ultimate intent to resolve it into enlightenment that is really, really healing and really powerful. So I really appreciate that you addressed that we can be, you know, vulnerable with each other, and that can actually be a greater support and power. Thank you.

0:51:58
I recommend Brené Brown on that a little bit.

0:52:01
Because she says that true connection comes through vulnerability. In her books.

0:52:07
And there's something to consider there.

0:52:27
And if any of you are learning methods or expanding into different dimensions that you'd like to share, I think it'd be nice to hear from people. I know a lot of people do healing because they're struggling with things. So they are doing self healing and they're experimenting with different healing modalities. So if there's something that works for you that you'd like to share with the showdown group, I think we can do that. So what else? I know a lot of you have a lot of things to say, so please share. By the way, so these exercises, the tapping and all that, so they come from energy medicine. that was created or discovered by a lady, she's in her 70s now, but she healed herself from a wheelchair over 30 years ago by doing these energy exercises and she's dealt with a lot of people and a lot of, not just physical challenges, but mental and emotional challenges and people having those challenges throughout the years of healing. It's called Energy Medicine. Her name is Donna Eden. She actually has different names for the Oh My God exercises. I just call them Oh My God because maybe some of you will remember next time you're like, Oh My God, I didn't finish my work. And then Thank you, Kali, for this really beautiful, like getting together and sharing these things because yeah, I think we forget to take care of ourselves often. And one thing that just kept coming up for me in the meditations today that we are already whole as we are. So many times we try to fix ourselves or try to be better and learn from it. Like this was one of the meditations that I want to teach you things and I want to learn from you because we are sharing and then I'm like no because we are all one and I already know what you know and you already know what I know. So there's really nothing to teach to each other or learn from each other because we already have access to all of it. And the same way that kept coming up for me that we are already whole and there is nothing, nowhere to go and because of that we can just ease into that and relax and say, okay, I don't need to run away from anything and I don't need to go for anything and try to reach anything because life as it is, is just beautiful and complete and enlightenment is present in it. So, that was something that kept coming up for me. me and another experience is when I was learning French actually and somebody pointed out that I was not progressing like a straight line up but I was making jumps and let's say it really came out at the point like for a while I was talking in present tense and then all of a sudden I learned past tense so I all of a sudden I was able to tell stories that happened and that was like a big step up in my language learning and I noticed that the same thing happening is happening in the spiritual past and we are not going continuously up and up and up or at least we are not noticing it, but there are sometimes jumps. And it's OK to have a stagnating, apparently stagnating period when it seems like nothing is improving, but everything is still improving, even if you don't see that. So thank you, Lizada, a few things that came up.

0:57:08
Thank you. Bakhti.

0:57:14
Hi, Kali. Thank you very much. This is so beautiful. What I'd like to share is I have been doing a lot of emotional processing. And one of the things that occurred for me is that with our mindfulness practice, it's so easy to be mindful in our interaction. Like we can see when we're angry at somebody else, or we can see when we're being a certain way, but what I've discovered and what kind of where you've led us today is that there are these really silent, kind of automatic thoughts that are so hidden and so embedded that really, you know, create a lot of the disruption or disturbance in ourselves and our being. and our being. And so the great news is that when we heal these, when we turn the mirror back into ourselves and really, like what you shared today is the beginning, you know, where we really can see how all these things we tell ourselves about ourselves aren't real and they're not true, that's where our true freedom starts to open up. So thank you very much. And it is very possible to get over those, these emotional issues that feel like they're keeping us so imprisoned. So everyone, there is hope, there is hope and there's a way out.

0:58:48
Thank you.

0:58:49
Thank you, Bhakti. And yeah, there's a way out and there's also a way of being okay with, even if you're in

0:58:56
it, right?

0:58:57
Experiencing it as an experience and not trying to run away from things, like you said. Thank you. Bodhidharma.

0:59:06
Hi. Kali, thank you. This was truly amazing.

0:59:09
I learned a lot and it was very, very helpful. And I think we should have more of these. And a thing that seems like we might want to address as well is psychic healing. And it's something that you probably won't read a lot about in books. I think a lot of these books are very, very good for emotional healing techniques, even subtle physical healing techniques. And what we do with our emotional bodies, our actions, our subtle physical reactions, or the responses of our subtle physical body, of our physical body, this all has to do with responses with our environment and how we process things in our environment and also in our minds, right? But where's the separation? I'll notice a lot of times that there's thoughts that go through my head that I'm like, and we've all been there, where the hell does that come from? And sometimes there's the immediate response of like, oh, it's that person's and wanting to blame. Sometimes there's the response of wanting to accept it, but then there's a processing there. So I think in our school, more than most modalities out there, we're very attuned to the fact that we are all psychic. And Rama and Sambhara have been teaching us this all along. And it's probably just good to like understand better ways to deal with psychic information, not only from each other, but from the crazy world that we live in, which is getting more and more difficult as, as we speak. So that's just something I want to add. So thank you so so much. This is wonderful.

1:01:04
showers and things like that, which is also something that affects us, right? Apparently, because we only filter so much information into our awareness, but there's a lot of information in the universe coming from people and out of space. Okay, but yeah, good point. Thank you. I love this feedback and we are so there's short on songs going forward. Hopefully, we'll be able to address some of these things and just, you know, work together or recognize recognition is liberation together. Of all the stuff that is difficult for

1:01:52
us that this time in our study on the path. Yes, Tara. I just wanted to point out how, like, by practicing this self-kindness and compassion, I automatically feel kinder and more compassionate towards all of you. And that's just kind of like a subtle thing. And I know we're all compassionate and kind towards each other, period, right, in a way that, you know, we, you know, we just love each other because we're family. That is, at least for me, that's some guys are family. But yeah, like these subtle shifts and an understanding of struggle that we all have and, you know, Ajna bringing out addiction and emotional pain and burnout, I think it was like, okay, like it gives me a deeper understanding through what I'm going through and also deeper understanding for all everybody else goes through. Anyways, I just wanted to make the point how like easy it is to feel compassion for all of you automatically after feeling more compassion for myself.

1:03:07
Yes, and a couple more hands raised, but I do want to point out that sometimes there might be a strange reaction when we practice self-compassion, like almost a repulsion. So I just wanted to bring that into this awareness too, that it's not like, oh, I love myself now, okay, great. It might just be like, no, I cannot accept that. And there might be certain situations where I can't accept it. Generally, I'm okay with self-love, but not this area. So I do want to raise that too, that if you felt, you know, like a resistance to when we're meditating together on self-compassion, hey, it's okay. It's part of the whole. All right, so we are at time. I am going to stay on and I see at least three more hands up so let's continue.

1:04:06
Just a quick thing when Tara you said family about the sangha you know in Rama Banavar's talk says sangha is home so it doesn't matter where you are sangha is home.

1:04:20
Thank you.

1:04:20
Yes, Ikeo.

1:04:21
You're going to have to unmute yourself. Hold on. Hi. Yes, I just wanted to mention that I really appreciate this.

1:04:28
I think this is this is kind of what

1:04:31
what I've been missing from the sangha.

1:04:32
We're talking about family and and

1:04:34
and it's like, you know, it's the

1:04:36
family never meets, never talks about, never shares, never wants, there's not much of a family, right? So I think these kinds of interactions are really, but I've been missing probably the best, yeah, here, I guess here, whatever. So this remote stuff is really, I think we have to also have to adjust with our practices, with everything else, but that remote things kind of require us to act and be different. So that's all. Thank you.

1:05:21
Rob.

1:05:22
Hello, one of the points that I wanted to mention, Ikki already mentioned, for me, meeting with Sangam members and, you know, having a drink, you know, having a talk, having a dinner, that has really shifted things for me much more than all the other things. Like, you know, we are a community. The power of Sangha, one of the jewels, the most important jewels in our path is because, you know, when you have a drink with somebody and then you put your, all your barriers down and you can be more accessible and more vulnerable, that also the interaction, the humor, the connection, that changes so much. that puts things into perspective because when you share with somebody and they're like oh okay this person is sharing and that person is drunk so I'm not gonna say anything just listen there's being all weird okay that's fine and that kind of puts that load off of you and that's been so helpful and just making a couple of jokes about your situation, bringing humor into that makes it so light that it doesn't seem so difficult anymore. And yeah, I'm moving out of Hawaii, so if you want to grab a drink sometime before I go. Yes, that's exactly what I mean. Grab some matcha together. And also, I would love to in some time offer some kind of healing for show dance too, if you're all interested. I could do that together as well. for being a beautiful community that we can support each other. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, let's do healing for showdowns. That sounds so fun. Pinyin. All right, Satori.

1:07:43
Yeah, I think, has been definitely a really good way for me to do something different. And visiting the Hungarian Sangha was just probably the best thing ever that could have happened in May to me. So So I like to just recommend traveling to other dojos as well, you know, connecting with other folks. It's a nice way to get out of your usual path and connect with other ones. You know, maybe next time I'll go to India or Iceland or something. And I just recommend traveling, visiting others. There's so much heart and compassion and love coming from them. I'll be traveling in the U.S. now with all of you in the U.S. Thank you.

1:09:06
Thank you, Sotoy. Yeah, there's a lot of Hungarians on this call, which I'm very happy about, very excited. when even when you see or when we see other people suffer or you know struggle we recognize that we can bring a lot of light to them even when we're a visiting teacher in a in a different country or a different dojo and maybe we should do more of that. All right any final words anyone? Anyone?

1:09:37
Yeah, may I say something? This is Chetananda.

1:09:42
Hi.

1:09:42
So yeah, this is very refreshing. I don't know if we've ever had a conversation like this ever, and I'm really appreciative of it. And I second the idea that we could do this again and probably a few more times. It takes practice, even though I was having a hard time like speaking up, because I'm like, I don't know, in some ways I'm very, it's easy for me, but sometimes with sangha it feels really hard to be vulnerable. So some practice could be really helpful perhaps. And I guess I've had some struggles with like this idea of allies versus friends. Like if you're all in on sangha, then you don't really have too much beyond sangha. Although I've done some more reconnecting with people outside of sangha to kind of fill the need of just more of like friends, people who can like come together and help each other out. And I thought that's what Sangha was, but it's not always what Sangha is. And I see the potential for everyone. And I also understand why we're not always ready to, you know, help a sangha mate out. And it's probably because we're on four different yogas and it's not personal, but sometimes it can feel that way, even if it's not. So, yeah, I guess maybe this, maybe there's a conversation beyond this where it's more about like, how do we all find that balance of, like, I would literally be in the hospital with any one of you if I'm within driving distance, four hours even. And I don't always know that that's true, vice versa. And to those of you who are like that for me, thank you. But yeah, I would just invite some more conversation

1:11:52
around these things.

1:11:53
Yeah, I think-

1:11:53
I just wanted to quickly mention that we should actually have a list of topics we need to talk about and just have these regular meetings like one is the feeling alienated in the sangha. And that's, thank you for being vulnerable again to Nanda that's awesome. raise more awareness and raise more understanding for each other's struggle. Yeah, and one thing about family, if we do consider ourselves family, for those of us who do,

1:12:38
you know, might act not the way you want them to and things like that.

1:13:07
But again, if it's family, it's, it is true, but we should work for a more functional family, because we don't want to have a dysfunctional family like most families in the world, you know, like maybe that is one place where we can have a family of 300 that is a functional family. And I know it's a high tall, and I don't want to raise expectations but at least we can work towards it. That's the beginning. Today's meeting is the beginning of this process.

1:13:40
Thank you for volunteering, Tara, for the next talk.

1:13:45
All right.

1:13:50
and raising your voices and we'll meet again in July. and raising your voices and we'll meet again in July. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
