0:00:00
Welcome everybody to the coach. My name is Sambhava. I'm going to be emceeing tonight's ceremonies and just a quick structural note so we're going to have multiple breaks tonight so we're going to be out here for a while. We'll go two speakers break, two speakers break, two speakers break. So you can pace your water consumption accordingly. As I mentioned on the walk-in, the folks on breaks with blue and green lights are our safety team, so if anyone needs anything, please talk to them. And otherwise, just sit and enjoy this beautiful, beautiful desert. So we're going to start tonight's festivities with a commencement by Paul and Lama.

0:00:48
Hi everybody, I'm Paula Lamo and I would like to welcome you all to the Encefredo. Don't worry, Simbara is here and he is up next and just the opening act. But it's an honor to be here with all of you today. Finally, after so many years of being apart, we get to be here in this magical desert on the solstice. So let's just take a few minutes to relax, to ease into this place, take a few deep breaths, feel the wind on your skin, look around at this tremendous place of beauty and power. Really try to let your old self go. Any worries, enmity, work items. Just kind of let the wind carry it away.

0:01:42
And really just surrender to this place, to the teachings. Let's just sit for a few minutes

0:01:50
and try to connect to the desert. and try to connect to the desert.

0:02:00
I'm going to do a little bit of a massage. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. Very nice. So the Anza Brigo Desert is a very special place for our lineage. Samvara's teacher, Samvara and his peers have taught here and meditated here for decades. So there's a lot of magic and stored power here for all of us to access. So an important consideration is how will you use that power and the teachings that we receive here this weekend. So we really want to reflect on our intention. We want to set our intention for the trip. How you would like to improve your practice or if you can see a higher dharma for your existing practices. Really try to reflect on this, write it down if you have to, refer back to it because this place and these teachings will offer a tremendous transformation of both the first and So when you go home, you'll be equipped with this extra power. And it's up to you how you choose to use it. So really reflect on that and actually write it down so you remember. So I want to share with you all a transmission of the essence of the power of this place and the best way to use it. So we're just going to sit for one song. You don't have to do anything. Just look up here.

0:06:21
Just try to still your thoughts try to let go of yourself as much as you can

0:06:31
the

0:06:38
the the the I'm going to play it again. I'm going to play it. Thank you. I'm going to play it again. I'm going to be doing a lot of research on this.

0:10:07
Thank you, that was beautiful. So as we drop our old self and surrender to the teachings and this place, we want to still maintain a tight first attention. have tremendous respect for this place and the people around you So if you are having a hard time

0:11:19
Talk to somebody if you see someone having a hard time, please try to help so That is all oh I do have one more thing I wanted to wish Samara and all of us a happy 20 year enlightenment anniversary. All right. Thank you all. Enjoy. We have an amazing lineup of teachings. All right, who's next?

0:11:49
Sombara, please make your way to the stage. A special mic cover.

0:12:03
Got it.

0:12:06
Hi everyone. Welcome. Salutations. I'm happy to be back. Be back on the West Coast and definitely be back in this beautiful, beautiful desert. As some of you know, I've been on retreat since the equinox. So after the equinox teachings, I went on a spiritual retreat. And it was really wonderful. The most amazing retreat I've ever had. It was very recuperative for me. And it was very, very bright, very enlightening. It was very transformative. And I was able to come to a higher dharma. So it's really wonderful. So that's what I'm going to be sharing with you guys today. The higher Dharma that I have come to be aware of on my retreat. You know, retreats are important from time to time. People go on retreats for different reasons. Sometimes you gotta go on a retreat if you have like some really bad habits. You gotta like do something to get rid of it. So some people, you know, like let's say someone's like an alcoholic. So they go on a retreat to the Betty Ford Clinic or something. And then they're like, okay, I'm gonna get rid of this problem. And then on retreat, there's a powerful thing you can change. Now the founder of the 12-step program, on his deathbed, his last request was double-scratch meat. Like, true story. I'll hang out with him. Okay and then you know sometimes you go on the retreat to become more like healthy. So you can go on, sometimes someone might be overweight and they go on some retreat where they're doing this boot camp every day and eating healthy and like kind of redoing their life. They transform. So this one lady she was like really, really like big, like 300 pounds, like average American. And then, and then she's like, she's at the retreat and she's like, I want to have a body like Cardi B. And then they're like, if you want to have a body like Cardi B, you're going to have to do some Cardi O. And then she did, and then, blah. So that's, those are some reasons. Sometimes you go on a retreat because you want to gain some kind of power. So Shotokan, karate, they have this, you know, a couple times a year, special training where they get together, it's a retreat, and then they just do lots and lots and lots of martial arts, and they all get more powerful. I remember one time I took a couple students to Japan. This is a story. This is a joke. I took a couple students to Japan and we went on this martial arts retreat. We went to this place where there was all these great martial arts masters. There was this karate master, this judo ushidashi, this iaido 10th degree black belt. And we were like watching them do all these great things. And then at the end, we realized, hey, we didn't see any ninjas. And then we were like, impressive. Retreats, right? You can gain all sorts of things on retreats. But we're talking about like more like spiritual retreats. So I remember I was talking to a younger student about an older student and this This guy he he was like he really wanted to understand the suffering of the world to strengthen his bodhicitta practice So I was telling the younger student of mine I said so he decided to go and spend a week at Auschwitz. And then they were like, what's that? And I was like, oh, it's a concentration camp in Poland. And then they were like, oh, cool. Like, is that like a meditation thing? And well, different kind of concentration. But he did, this is an F teacher, he did go to Auschwitz and he was just looking around and really like taking in the suffering of the world to increase his Bodhicitta practice. So we have, you know, all sorts of different reasons to go on retreat. But the kinds of retreats that we tend to do are those meditative ones. Yeah, like there's that one that Santa Claus has, special Santa Claus retreat. You guys can sign up on the internet and you go there and you can learn from the elves, because the elves have a very critical time for the Sangha and the teachings. And I go on a retreat when there must be a change, there must be an elevation, a transformation. You know, I do it every few years or so when it's a break time. And during those times there have been powerful shifts. So retreats are good. The best part of the retreat is that when I go on a retreat, I learn something. I shift. I change. And I come to awareness of a higher Dharma. And then I come back, and then I have a reunion with you. And we meet anew, and I can share with you these new teachings, this new way, a new unfoldment with the Dharma. And that's a really beautiful thing. See, reunions are powerful. When we're apart for a time, and then I come back, and I have something new to show. One of the ST2s who I was with on my retreat, he was talking about going to his high school reunion. And at his high school reunion, he met a guy, and the guy in high school was just a regular kid like anyone else, but he had gone and gotten an MBA and became some executive somewhere or something. And he was like really strong in business. And then this ST2 who I was with, he also was strong in business. So they got together and they were able to meet in a new way. There was a new opportunity. And that new opportunity was, you know, to go on some financial adventure. Anyway, so he went into business with them and he ended up through that connection making over a million dollars. So it was a reunion and these two students from high school had new opportunities to help each other out. So reunions are good. Also, I remember I went to my high school reunion, my 10-year high school reunion. After that I couldn't find them anymore. Maybe they couldn't send me but I thought it was I thought it was pretty funny there was this one guy this one guy Tim and he in in school was pretty quiet you know little skinny kid just quiet you know nothing remarkable and then here at the reunion he was he was hilarious. So he had become a stand-up comic. So he totally changed from this quiet little kid to this outgoing comedian, and he was really funny. He also put on about 50 pounds and kinda totally went bald. And his joke was, wow, the high school reunions are amazing. Everyone's changed so much, they don't even recognize me. Now, I was at kind of a reunion. I was at one of the RMS teachings, a lot of show times, you guys were there. And I walked in and I was seeing some of the contemporaries of mine who I hadn't seen in like 20 years. And I walked over and I said, hey how's it going? And I was talking to them and they were like, wow, you look exactly the same. It's like nothing's changed. And I was like, oh, this is so bad. What a terrible thing to say to a Buddhist. So reunions are good. Reunions are good. Now when I was on my retreat I was focusing on really the most essential aspect of enlightenment in our school and it is called the Maha Mandala and I'm going to talk about the Maha Mandala is the highest, most direct experience of enlightenment It is really truly the foundation of this school of enlightenment because it is direct enlightenment and it has many many qualities but it's the most essential for liberation. So a mandala is a circle. It's very often depicted in a drawing, in a kanka. Usually a lot of the other kind of drawn structures within the circle, many circles within the circle and within each circle there might be different deities, forces, dimensions, religious, spiritual, higher knowledge. And a mandala always is an expression of balance. So, everything in the mandala, you can look at a picture of a mandala, they'll have like all sorts of little things going around but it is all balanced. It all renders a circle of many things that are balanced. And even sometimes there's like some things that are trouble or things that you would think are difficult. Like there might be wrathful energies. Like you could say, okay, so we have this mandala, but then we have these five demons, and demons are bad. But when in the mandala, you put the Buddha in the center, and then another ring around the Buddha, and you put the five demons there facing out, those five demons fall into a dharmic balance because they become the protectors of the dharma. So there are all sorts of ways of taking all sorts of energy, dimensions, power and bringing them into balance. So the yoga of the Mahamandala is an expression of unity. The Mahamandala, when you practice this, this is the main point of why I'm bringing this opportunity. This will bring you into a higher state of unity. And what that means is that you will experience higher states of enlightened consciousness every day. So with this new way of the Dharma unfolding, even for very new beginners, you will experience enlightened states of consciousness. And for Chodon, Arhant, and the Amsterdam people through this higher enlightenment of consciousness that we explore and experience every day. Because this mandala is a powerful, powerful vehicle of unity. In the mandala everything comes together. The mandala really is a construct of enlightenment itself. So the self always creates an awareness field of duality. I mean, when you have self, when you believe that the ego is real, you say, oh yeah, this is definitely me, I'm definitely separate from everything. And then your whole way of perceiving life is a way of duality. But that's not true. Enlightenment is simply seeing beyond the illusion of self. Seeing that you are not a separate self, that you're not this whole definition of your being and that you're actually one with everything. But when you have a self, then everything that you perceive is duality, but it's just false. Like, from the point of view of the self, we could say right now because of a separation a dual awareness you actually perceive life in in a way of partiality of limitation of something false that Like if I was gonna say, all right, which way is up? Right, we would all say, I mean, isn't that up? Because we're on the ground. I don't think we can get more up by going into the ground. So it's just very common awareness. Up is that way, right? way. Right? And that's true from a point of view. But what if there's somebody else on the exact opposite side of the planet and we ask them which way is up? They're going to point the opposite direction and they'll be pointing down compared to where we are, pointing up. So, very often when you're just perceiving, perceiving life, you're perceiving life from a point, from a partial view of duality. And that view, while it might make a lot of sense, is actually not true. So let's imagine that we were flung out into space and we're like, okay, now which way is up? Not so easy. But that's the true, that's what we would call the true view. So when you're in a fixed position on the planet Earth, well, that way's and then there's somebody else saying, no, it's exactly the opposite. And both are wrong. But if you're, if everyone's floating in space, if you're still alive, then you're like, oh, every way is up. And that's the view beyond self. Now, the funny thing about even enlightenment, where you can get beyond partial view You know get beyond the self and and this worldview you still have ignorance Enlightened people are still ignorant It's true And there's plenty of things like people don't know right I mean even like famous amazing Saints Ramakrishna I remember one of his devotees was telling him about math or weather or you know like science stuff and he's just like I don't even want to I'm getting a headache I don't even want to think about it and well he was very you know spiritually enlightened you know he had things that he didn't know about. That's a kind of ignorance. So the pathway to enlightenment goes on and on and on. It never ends. Even the most enlightened people still have things to learn. You can always find a new way of understanding the universe through understanding anything. You can look at anything and understand one. So when we are ignorant, there's always some more to learn. I often talk about ignorance as you're in a dark room and there's a whole bunch of stuff in the room. There's, you know, there's food over there, some money over there, but then there might be a snake over there, so it's like, whoa, I gotta be very careful about what I do in this room. And then, enlightenment is having a flashlight, where you can go around, see what's there, see if it's dangerous, or see if it's not. And that's cutting through, but wherever you direct your mind, the mind of enlightenment, you cut through that ignorance. But you have to, you gotta go around stuff. Unless you're like, you know, the most enlightened person in the world, then it's just, you know, there's, you turn on the lights and you see everything in the room. because then we don't have a perception of duality. We have the direct seeing, but it's only as big as our light. So someone might have like a big lighter, somebody might have a big flashlight, and then the more and more that you develop your light, the more and more you see. But it is ignorance that cuts you off from unity. So it's the work of a Shodan or an Arhat, it's the work to take that light, that truth, perception of eternity and just direct it, looking around the room, seeing what's there, alluring more. Now, the Mahamandala is that condition. It's a condition of awareness beyond the self and is the condition of that room with the lights fully on. So it is considered to be the highest enlightenment this way. Now, in the mandala, there are 10,000 things. There's good things, there's bad things. There's all sorts of things. And there's everything. This is how we describe it. We say 10,000 things, but that just means there's a whole bunch of things. These are dimensions. Dimensions of power, light, divinity. There's places, there's energy, there's all sorts of things, there's everything. That's a way of talking about it. There's a whole bunch of things. We can say 10,000 things. And that's in the mandala, the mahamandala. Even though there's everything there, everything is one. and to understand the essence of the Mahamandala is to understand the unity of the ten thousand

0:36:55
things.

0:36:56
They all appear in a circle. They all appear in balance. This is what the mind of the Mahamandala Yogi does. It balances everything into the Dharma. And it's really hard to get that, because you go, no, I'm totally different, I'm separate, nothing's over there, there's a mountain over there, a rock over there, a bush over there, all these things are separate, I don't see how they're one. And yet they are. My example is, you know, let's say you're not doing dream yoga and you fall asleep and you just have some random dream, right? And in the dream, the jolly green giant comes over to give you some brussel sprouts, I don't know. And then in the dream, and you're like, I don't like brussel sprouts, but the jolly green giant is pretty jolly. And then, let's say, some monster starts chasing you, right? You start running, oh my god, there's a monster chasing me! And then, uh, then you see like some beautiful angel. And the beautiful angel picks you up and saves you from the monster. And you're like, thanks angel! And then, let's see, you become the king of Mars. And somehow get lots of money on Mars. You get the mineral rights or something. Okay, you know, it's like all this stuff is happening to you in a dream, right? You find yourself in a green submarine, chasing down a kraken, who knows? Isn't it funny, anything, all these bizarre things happen in dreams, right? And then you wake up and you go, whew, that was just a dream. But if you look at all those things, all the crazy things that you've ever seen arise in your dreams, the people, the places, the situations, ups and downs, it all arose from your mind. It just came out of your mind. Your mind is the one place, the place of unity of all those things that would rise. It is exactly the same right now with waking consciousness. That is the essence of mind. You can see that in a dream. You can see that in the waking. So everything that arises is actually one. It is in one big mandala of enlightenment. And the powerful awakening is to see that unity. That's it. That is a very, very high enlightenment to see the unity of all things. I remember the movie Contract. I think it begins with just a big white screen. And then you start moving into it, and the white parts start breaking up, and you see that there are these giant mega-galaxies. And then they move apart, and then there's this one right in front, and you go deep, right into this one mega-galaxy that has all of a sudden hundreds of thousands of galaxies in it. And then you go deeper and deeper, you finally get to the Milky Way, and then you go into that, and then you go finally into our solar system, and finally to Earth, and finally into, you know, Jodie Foster's house. But this is, this reminds me of the, you know, the Mahamandala. Because from a point, it looks like one. And then if you go in, there's everything. And even though everything arises from the mind, being in Jodie Foster's house is a particular experience. She has a particular pathway to enlightenment, a particular story, and all these amazing things that happened to her in the whole movie. So this is absolutely true. Every single thing that arises, even though it is a one, it is particular and it's important, it's special. It's like everything that arises, arises for a reason of Dharma. Some garbage that arises in your life, you're like, oh my God, I forgot to pay taxes or something like that. It arises for a reason. It's a very important reason for your enlightenment. Someone gives you a hard time, very important thing that arises for your enlightenment. So everything that arises, the cat in the hat, a mortgage, a flat tire, that's not arising, that's deflating. Everything that comes up in your life or in your dreams, you know, Jolly Green Giant, or the purple submarine, yeah all that stuff. Everything that arises is actually specific. Specific, it has a meaning, it means something for enlightenment everything that arises Nothing is taken out of enlightenment And this is to say that everything has a suchness Suchness means that it has an enlightened aspect In everything that we see that arises There is a perfect enlightenment. I know we kind of say no way, that's a bad thing, not a bad thing. You got to put it, you got to use the understanding of the mandala to put it into balance where it becomes dharma. There is no such thing as a bad or good. But But there is Dharma. Putting things into order creates Dharma. Yeah. In Samsara there is Nirvana. It's kind of the ultimate way to express that. But in understanding the Mandala, everything that arises, every little thing, pieces, individuals, stuff, dramas, they're all enlightenment. Everyone who has ever been enlightened, ever, has all sorts of stuff in their life. This, that, the other thing. You can read the stories of their lives. And there's this like, oh, I had this father that was like this. I had this problem with this. I meditated like that. I learned about this. Blah, blah. They took a thousand things, I would say ten thousand things in their life. And they brought it into balance. And that's what brought them enlightenment. So, there's this story. There was this guy from like Asia somewhere. And he was all a Buddhist. And he liked Buddha. But then he came across Christianity. And then he was like, oh, I'm going to do that. And then he got into Christianity and, you know, was all, yeah, I'll take Jesus as my personal savior. And then he died. Saved. And then he goes up to heaven. And they're all, come on in. And he's so cool. He's there and he's like, hey, you know, so I remember from my Buddhism. You know, Buddhism is a cool guy. You know, is he up here in heaven? And I go, oh no, he didn't accept Jesus as his personal savior. And then, oh, well, where's Buddha then? Oh yeah, we sent him right to hell. And I go, oh, can I go check on him? Because I used to kind of like the guy. Yeah, sure. Hell is that way. So he goes, elevator to hell and he is down there and then he walks into hell and it is gorgeous, beautiful, shining, luminous, it is even better than heaven and he goes wow and then he said, Hey, so why is this so beautiful? I love it so much. I heard hell was a bad place. And he goes, Oh, it was pretty bad when we first got here. But then we put it into order. This is the pathway to enlightenment. You take your life and you put it into order. You take your life and change it from hell and self to beauty and enlightenment. So this is what the teachings of the Mandala are. It is a very, very, very, very precise, deep and powerful, luminous way of taking everything in life, bringing it to order, going from a condition of separation and duality to unity and enlightenment. Now there is what I would call the emptiness of eternity and the active side of infinity. Now in beginning enlightenment we have to understand the emptiness of eternity. And the emptiness of eternity is oh my gosh I got all this crazy stuff in my head, so I gotta like meditate and stop thought. And if I can stop thought, if I can become empty, then I enter the enlightened stages. I can become empty of all these things jumping around in my head, then I can see through them, they're not real then I experience enlightened stages of consciousness and that's good that's what you read in all the spiritual books right but then there's the other aspect enlightenment which is what I call the advanced aspect of enlightenment, which is that everything is enlightened, everything is enlightenment, there is nothing separate from enlightenment. And that means that taking any single thing, a blade of grass, a grain of sand, and saying let me look into this, and seeing that it is enlightenment. When you can understand the individual enlightenment of every little thing, that is a way of having a stronger, greater awareness of enlightenment. This is the way that you can see enlightenment in anything brings you to a higher awareness of enlightenment. So for beginners, it's look at the enlightened teacher, look at and like focus on that enlightened teacher. Do what that enlightened teacher says. Look at their consciousness, follow those things, do the enlightened mental kata that they're teaching you, you know, like follow that, do that exactly. And then you uncover in that great enlightened being or in the enlightened students of the enlightened being, the Shodons or Buddha's arhats, right? Like follow them, they're enlightened. Do what they do, learn from them and if you can figure it out then you have some enlightenment. And then for enlightened students then look at something new you know like maybe you have enlightenment through insight now start to have mastery of Kundalini or start to have mastery of compassion. Start to spread and expand your enlightenment. But any time that you take anything, some grain of like master or a grain of sand and you can see enlightenment in it, your enlightenment grows within you. This is the Mahamandala. The Mahabandhala is very technical. It is very technical. My teacher used to say this so often. He's like, the universe is such a complex place.

0:50:32
It's so complex.

0:50:34
Thousands and thousands of dimensions. In perfect balance and in one. But if you have one dimension out of sorts, it all goes to the honey bucket. So, it's a very complex thing. It's very, very, very, the Mahamandala is very, very similar to being a computer programmer. It's like, if you have one thing off in your code, it just won't work but if you have everything proper then you And there could be a lot and then it works and it's powerful like you think about like something very simple this is a one of the examples that the New York Yogi who I was working with on this were telling me. They're like, look at Google, right? You open up google.com, simplest screen. You just have to type something into a box. Simplest interface, right? And yet, do you know how many lines of code is behind that one thing? Like, once you write something in there, if you click something, then trillions of lines of code do something. And they do something that seems to work. You know, like, hmm, this is important. Kittens playing with yarn. Let's get to it. But anyway, yeah, so what we do in the yoga of the Mahamandala is we, there's, you know, there's putting a lot of code together for reasons, and they usually end up being very, very, very, very, very, very complex. But we can do some very simple programs in the beginning. Mahamandala. And we can do some things that are very simple. You know, that's the thing, when you're doing your first Hello World, you're sitting on, you know, you might be learning your first language, but you're sitting on a language that can do amazing things and make you a lot of money and get you to like make a website where you can put kittens, darn, playing the piano and saying I love you Yeah So, yeah the the yoga of this mandala is Like programming but it's like programming the most essential aspects of higher awareness is very strong and It is something that is not just a piece of code that you write and then it sits there and runs it is a living Experience It is always of the moment happening Right now it's it's not something fixed. It's always it's always I Say it's like creating the universe. It's many things. So like let's take Avalokiteshvara, this wonderful bodhisattva of compassion with a thousand arms and every arm, every hand is a hand of compassion, goes out to help beings across the universe in every way that they need help and it's not like okay you know here's my here's my my you know hand 567 that just like helps in some certain way and then if you're there it'll help you maybe a little bit you know not like some government program it's like it's like no I am specifically my hand is specifically aware of your need and I'm lifting you up I'm Really really gonna help you so have a look to Shara's thousand arm thousand hands of compassion Always aware of what exactly in the moment of being needs to help them and that's being active in the flow not just an idea. I mean you could see a painting of Avalokiteshvara and it is fixed but if you if you meditate and meditate and meditate and meditate on Avalokiteshvara you can see in your mind even a painting just is too fixed it's a physical world but you can see in your your mind that Avalokiteshvara exists and that all the things those thousand arms and there's more than a thousand arms they're active and they're a powerful aspect of sustaining dharma in the world. So this is a very very very powerful beautiful way of enlightenment. What I'd like to do, I'd like to sit with you just for a few minutes and I'd like you to focus on your third eye. So there's a direct seeing of the mandala It'll probably appear at the circle a circle of light or sphere of light And then you may understand different qualities Of it you may understand a lot may understand very little But this is your introduction to the mandala and It's a very very very core aspect of the school but i'd like to just sit with you just for a few minutes focus on the third eye uh have your eyes closed and just have that intention to see the mandala because i'm going to i'm going to open the mandala okay so we're just going to do a little bit of a massage. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to do a little bit of a massage. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to do a little bit of a walk around the house. I'm going to walk around the house and see what's going on. I'm going to walk around the house and see what's going on. I'm going to do a little bit of a massage. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to do a little bit of a walk around the house. I'm going to walk around the house and see what's going on. I'm going to walk around the house and see what's going on. Okay, okay, very well. Good. You all did very well. And this is the, we call it, dark shot of the Maha Mandala. We call it that because I just called it that. And this is an introduction. And tonight, what we're going to be doing is we're going to be actually building a mandala. And the way that we are doing it is we are working through constructs of enlightened attention that are these very powerful structures in the mandala, in the second attention. But there's also every specific thing every specific thing Enlightenment arises from it. Kalden Lama's teaching was amazing It was perfect perfect perfect teaching Yeah, so just amazing and it falls within It was the beginning of this mandala that we're creating. This evening, and tomorrow, and the next day. It is an experience of creating a mandala of enlightenment. It includes many dimensions. Let me tell you a little bit more about this Maha Mandala What I call the Maha Mandala I call it because in the second attention it is a very very strong Structure Connection, unity, balance, what Buddha called dependent origination and how it perfectly comes together. So it's depicted in a circle, but it doesn't actually exist in a circle. But it is what it is. The second intention is a very, very, very powerful understanding of how everything arises, how everything's alike. And how, if you have that awareness, you can work with those things in a right program. So, So this has been a very very strong structure in the school since the beginning. My teacher talked about it all the time. It is an aspect of Vajrayana Buddhism and Shingon Buddhism. These are considered to be the inner teachings, the esoteric teachings, the secret teachings. And these are the essence of teachings of enlightenment. Now we also have very very strong teachings of mysticism. However mysticism by itself is just black magic. Like if we all just were sitting here doing mysticism, we might be some very good mystics, but then it doesn't make you enlightened, and the mystical powers could actually make you get more into self. Because if you have magical powers, you tend to get more, oh, I'm special. But what we do is we put both of these things together. We put enlightenment, these fundamental structures of enlightenment, together with mysticism. And mysticism has like the turbo boost that really makes your practice effective, but there has to be those inner teachings of enlightenment. Now, I remember when I was learning, I just thought that whatever my teacher was teaching, I just have to master that and do that to be enlightened. And that's absolutely true. We call that a vehicle. A vehicle to enlightenment. So it's like, you know, if you have to get from point A to point B, you know, walking could be one thing, but if you have a vehicle, you know, if you walk that way, you might get, you know, eaten by coyotes or something. But if you have a vehicle, you know, you'll drive there and you'll be like, okay, cool. There's a way. What you have to learn is you have to learn how to drive. The Maha Mandala is called the supreme vehicle. Now there's many famous vehicles. The Buddha's vehicle was called the individual way to enlightenment. Garaveda Buddhism, the individual's way to enlightenment. And then there was another vehicle after that called Mahayana which is the great way more than just one person's way but the way for everyone to be enlightened and then they went kind of like a little bit back again and they're like well there's another way called the Mahayana which is the fast pathway to enlightenment these are three of the most famous vehicles to enlightenment and in the supreme vehicle all three exist. So in the teachings of the school ultimately there are the Buddhist direct teachings of how to become enlightened and there is also a very big teaching, which my teacher emphasized as a special thing about the Maha Mandala, which is the fast path, the fast way. So, let's say the individual teaching's like a motorcycle. You're like, you can get there. Let's call it like a moped. It'll get you there eventually, you know? A little slow. Okay, then there's the, then there's the Mahayana. The big way, right? And then, let's say that's like the soccer mom minibus. Minivan, right? And you're all like, let's go. Gotta get a lot of kids over to the enlightenment thing. And then there's the fast path, which is like having like a Corvette. You're like, oh, got my car, I'm gonna get there super fast. Yeah, so there's different ways to enlightenment. You know, different people like different ways. Some people are like, you know, the Mopeds pretty good. You know, gets me there eventually. Some people are like, I really like to have a lot of people in my minivan. The Corvette. Some people were like, ah, I like the Corvette. And then in this system, you gotta learn all three. You will experience all three aspects. And it's just part of our past. That's why it's called the Supreme Vehicle. The Supreme Being. Supreme Vehicle. Yeah, so, this is what it's called. And it does incorporate all aspects of all vehicles. Now, when I first came to the path, I was like, okay, my teacher is like, here's your vehicle. You know, let's say it's just one car. Here's your car. And the whole thing that you gotta do here is learn how to drive it. I was like, okay. And I go, it's hard to drive and what I have to do, you know, worked on that a lot. And, uh, eventually I learned how to drive it. A little bit better. Eventually became a master at driving it. And so that is, you know, being able to, you know, follow a vehicle that brings me to liberation. Now what I learned, that's what, that's how I always thought of it, like becoming enlightened, learning how to drive that car to get from point self to point E. But, but what I learned now is that, you know, you can make new vehicles. And that's exactly what my teacher did. It's not a fixed vehicle. It's a fixed vehicle because it's something that works. But sometimes you need to actually add new features to that vehicle because conditions change. You know, enlightenment from time to time has to change or the study of enlightenment. Because, you know, it's like if we're just going to do exactly what Buddha taught, you know, 2,500 years ago, it ain't going to work. It's just not going to work with what's going on in these conditions. So we have to have the truth of enlightenment. We have to modify the vehicle so that it works in these times. And that's what the yoga of the Maha Mandala is, it is saying, a recognition of enlightenment right now, and having a vehicle that works is good, but also learning to change that vehicle. So like, I used to just be like, learned how to drive the car, got from point E to point E, and then now I'm like, oh, now I know how to actually do new features on a vehicle. I know how to like, you know, like, let's say when I was a student, I had to drive down a flat road, and let's say that some of you have to drive up a bumpy dirt road, I can go, okay, let me recode this through the Mandela and give you four-wheel drive. Okay. And so it helps you, the vehicle changes and gives you the feature that you need. And you know, like, or some of you guys live in Hawaii, like driving down the road, that's really cool, let's put a sunroof on this baby. Make it a convertible. I don't know, you know, it's like for the condition. You can make it useful and you can make it a nice aesthetic. But it is literally adjusting and changing the vehicle of enlightenment. Now my teacher did this too. So when I was with my teacher, he was like, okay, here's the path. And he was teaching students for many years. They were all advanced and powerful and all this crazy stuff. And then I remember one big change that he made in the intermediate program for us. So he taught, I don't know, for 15 years where he taught all this, you know, power yoga and all this stuff. And then I remember a time where he started to teach Bodhisitta, the yoga of compassion. And I was just like, what? I've never heard the older students talk about this. And I'm like, isn't compassion stupid and weak? And then I was like, where did this come from? And what he was doing was he was changing the mandala. He was creating the yoga of compassion as a pathway to enlightenment for students. And you know, you can't just like throw a book at a student and say, hey, look at this cool spiritual book, and it becomes dharma. In a school with thousands of structures of support for enlightenment, they come from the mandala, everything has to be balanced. You have to be a master to create the thousands of dimensions. Like, you know, my showdowns and boat ons will know from the practice of Bodhicitta, there are thousands of dimensions of compassion. In order for that to be created, this is where you have to have that knowledge to say, oh, let's recode this vehicle to four-wheel drive and a sunroof, and some turbo boosters, I don't know, whatever, you know, so you can add and change the dharma. It was like a huge thing when Bodhicitta became part of our practical daily practice and for many of my students and many of the successful, you know, yogis, my teacher, it was one of the most enlightening, most powerful teachings. But it wasn't there for, you know, most of his life. He didn't teach it until he saw that it would help, especially, you know, ST2s me and he created it. I would also have to say another big impact is the enlightenment yoga. So when I joined the school there was a power yoga. There was lots of these little ST1 companies, the older students and they like few of them, four of them would work together and they would make some, you know, million dollar company or 10 million dollar company or 100 million dollar company. They all did it as expressions of power. And they did it and got lots of power. They did it to these occult, powerful dimensions and they were really good and they seemed so cool and sweet and awesome and amazing. And then at some point, it was the last yoga round. My teacher said, now we're gonna do yoga in a completely different way. It's not gonna just be for your personal power. It's going to be for enlightenment and the whole sangha's gonna do it. Everyone in the sangha has to do yoga. And it's going to be, if we succeed in this yoga, that's what's going to bring you the advanced teachings. And I was amazed and I worked really hard. And that was a change, a huge powerful change in the mandala. And by doing that, by making that change, I saw through yoga the pathway to enlightenment. Before it was just the pathway to power. But then finally we got to the way to enlightenment. So this is the basis of yoga in our school. It's not yoga for personal power. This is the yoga for enlightenment. This was created. But most of the time that I was with my teacher, it was just yoga for personal power and then it was created yoga for enlightenment. So my teacher was creating, he was flowing with the dharma and expanding and creating more opportunity. That's the yoga of the Mahabandhala. So ever since then, all I've been doing with my students was just following the vehicle I learned to drive. But now I know how to add a sunroof. Which is very, very, very, very powerful. Now, this is very important to understand. In this school, I'm talking about the mandala as being the essential aspect of enlightenment, which is true. But mysticism is the most important thing until you get to very, very advanced stages. When you're an advanced student, you're going into Samadhi, and you know, like you figure things out, then you say, okay, okay, I understand where mysticism is, but you are a master at that point. So mysticism until you gain mastery is the most important practice. What I'm going to be doing is I'm going to be doing the enlightened teachings of the Maha Mandala for you to show you the higher dimensions but it will be a showdown to do the mystic teaching the most empowered and important teaching it's kind of funny these are my teachings are the enlightenment teaching but all the showdowns in our house will be doing the mystical teachings which are very, they're the most important until you get really, really, really, really, really into them, but they're the most important. So we're changing the way that things work. The old way is out, there's a new way. And the old way was where I had to do the mystic teachings. I was the only one who could stand up in the desert and you know command the winds like this or like disappear or show all the different dimensions but now I've got a lot of strong shodons who can do this work so in our school there are two aspects the first aspect is enlightenment itself which is the That's the esoteric teachings, the direct teachings of light. Now if that was just the case, then 99% of you wouldn't know what's going on. You'd be confused. You'd be lost in the world. But it is the power of the mystic teachings that get you to directly understand, move ahead, break through barriers. So from now on, when I teach, you know, I'll teach like this, I'll talk about this, but I won't do any of this, I'm not doing transmissions or empowerment, I am working with my showdowns who are exceptional at doing these things. And I'm going to work hand in hand with them where they do their part, which is directing the teachings of power. And the teachings of power are the most important to experience and to focus If I would just start teaching just the mandala, then almost none of the, you know, anyone who's not a shodan would probably not understand it. But hand in hand, working with powerful shodans and ahas, who can do transmissions and empowerment and show you Buddhist magic, this is the way of our school. And they're good at it. So this is the way that we work forward. Now this is very important. It's a very successful pattern in teaching. You know, it's called the teacher-benefactor relationship or the first attention, second attention teacher relationship which means that you have two aspects of teachings. You have the teachings of power and then these ultimate, subtle, but direct teachings of enlightenment. The teachings of enlightenment are usually overlooked and it really requires the mystical teachings of power for you to really, really incorporate it to your awareness. And that's why I taught for 20 years, power, power, power, power. And it's the most important thing for you to focus on. But also understand that now that I'm, I found on my retreat, when I teach, I'm teaching power through my advanced students. My main focus is making space in the mandala for them. That's the way that I do it. The way that I do it is I'm like, there's space in the mandala for my advanced students. I show it on my arhat to teach. That empowers them, that lifts them up to a higher place in the mandala and it also is a very powerful effective way of teaching for the whole Sangha it is a higher level this is a higher Dharma that we're entering into I can focus on the things that I'm exceptional at that is going to take them a long time to learn by working with me through this method. But they've worked with me for, you know, 10 or 20 years to get to the level of being able to teach as a master mystic. Enlightened teachers of mysticism. That was my whole thing for 20 years. That's what I did. But now, we're getting to a higher place. A stronger place. So I'd like to sit with you again just for a few minutes and I'd like to have you have that understanding to see the next step in the mandala that we're creating tonight which is opening to the mystic teachers of enlightenment and great power. Alright, let's begin. I'm going to do a little bit of a massage. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to do a little bit of a massage. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to do a little bit of a massage. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to do a little bit of a walk around the house. I'm going to show you a little bit of the house. I'm going to show you a little bit of the house. I'm going to show you a little bit of a massage. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to do a little bit of a massage. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to do a little bit of a massage. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. Very good. Okay, that was a nice introduction to the Mahamandala, which I will be teaching about more. And more importantly, what I want you to be aware of as we go forward into this evening, there's a structure of this teaching in a mandala. And I'm gonna be teaching through mandalas for a little while, because that's what I'm into right now. It's pretty amazing. I think you guys are gonna enjoy it. But the showdowns I get up to teach, there's already a structure, a mandala, and they're doing their part in the mandala. They're doing those powerful parts. The mandala is setting, right? But they're coming in and they're doing these powerful things. I kind of think of it like You know apps. Apps on a phone.

1:31:28
Like

1:31:30
Like, the mandala's kind of like the operating system. And, yeah, it's kind of important, but you kind of don't notice it that much, right? You're more interested in what application can I use to do a thing that I need. So, the shodans that are teaching are doing this powerful application. They're like, I need to get this done with thinking. I need to get on this flight. I need to get on this list,

1:32:04
or something like that.

1:32:05
And these are the things that you need to do. But without the operating system, it would be not as possible. But then the operating system, if there's attention to it, at the level that I have right now, I can change the operating system to give more features that the apps can use. And I would say it's like, I remember when we used to have those flip phones, you know, before the smartphones, but even when we had flip phones, at some point, they started coming out with ones that could do, you know, GPS. So it's like, if you could build the GPS into the operating system, all of a sudden you can write software for that phone that could use that universal system of 27 satellites that the military put up there to blow up people but now we can somehow drive around and not get lost something like that so so that means that There are so many things out there in the world, but if the operating system can be written to be talking about extremely powerful app but it's all within the operating you know it's all on top of the operating system so in every teaching there is a connection there's going to be the mandala and power and all of the teachings of power are within a balance of the mandala. This is what we're going to be experiencing tonight. One last thing before we take a break, is that with this transformation from my retreat, I have a new not name is Samvara. That's not my name. Or it's my name, but don't call me that. I just want to be, I want to be only talked about and referred to and written about as Ajahn. And not that I'm not Samvara, I'm Samvara, but I don't want to be called something. I want you to focus on Ajan. When I first came up with Ajan, I was just like, stop calling me Sambara. You guys have the wrong intent or the wrong energy, and my name is a very powerful thing, so don't call me Sambara. Call me Ajan. Ajan, I was focusing on one of the dimensions of it, which is teacher. So Ajan means teacher, and it's like if you have a sensei you say hey sensei, sensei what do I do about this kick? Sensei what do I do about this punch? Hit someone with it. So you know it's an important functional thing it's like if you have a doctor you don't just say hey John what about this cancer I have. Doctor, what do I do about this? That's the more important thing, right? So, um, so that's why I wanted to be called Ajan. But there's another aspect of Ajan which is very strong to my dharma right now. And this is the Sanskrit word, Ajan. And it means the unborn. Specifically it means like the unborn incarnation of Vishnu. But it means that which is not manifest, that is limitless. That which is the primal cause of reality. The unborn, but enlightened aspect of eternity. So, I'd like to be just called Ajan for now on. Don't call me Samvara. Don't refer to me as Samvara. I'm going to change my email address from Samvara to Ajan. So, I'm just going to be Ajan, Which means teacher. And also, the unborn awareness of the white people. By John, the unborn, uh, what was that? The unborn... What was that? The Jason Bourne movie? The born supremacy? The born identity! There you go. Okay. The unborn identity that's me call me call me call me azan the unborn identity the unborn supremacy we were there okay anyway so um yeah so just uh time for now um a really good old Ajahn. Just old, simple Ajahn. Alright, thank you all so much. This was my main teaching for tonight, but we're going to go through the mandala teachings tonight, and I'll be here at the end. And now it is time, long awaited time, to just do what we all come here to do, which is the main thing. Go to the bathroom. And then it's like I could have done it for two things. Go to the bathroom and enlighten it. And guess what? Both happened. Cheers everyone. Be well. Okay so let's try to do a 15 minute break and we come back and we got a lot to do tonight. My name is Tara, and I hope you can hear me, especially on the left side. Okay, great. So tonight, I'm honored to be here, and I also feel extremely fortunate to be here with all of you and Ajan and build this beautiful...

1:39:02
Okay.

1:39:03
Let me try to get up. Maybe you'll hear my voice, Gary. How about that? Is it better? Alright. So, I'm honored and fortunate to be here tonight with all of you and with Ajahn to build this powerful, beautiful, enlightening structure of Maha Mandala. It's the first time I hear about it tonight. It's quite new, but I definitely see the magic of it. It appears here in this magical place and basically everything Father Mama said. There is value in this wind, there is value in this place, there is so much power and enlightenment stored in this special place and I just wanted to acknowledge it again. So I will be speaking about my experience being a student of Ajahn, basically being his first student. So it's going to be a recapitulation. And specifically, I will focus on Ajan's retreat and what they mean. So when Ajan, I have to check myself. When Ajan went on a retreat on the retreat in March around Equinox. We talked about what happens when the teacher goes away and how to continue your practice and how to pretty much have the perspective about it. And tonight we will be talking about what happens when your teacher comes back from the retreats have place in the history of spiritual, many different spiritual traditions. So Buddha had his favorite power place called Vulture's peak. When he went on a retreat, he saw a higher way for his danda. And from that retreat, he started teaching something very different than what he normally taught. He started teaching more like a Vajrayana way of spiritual practice that benefited his Sangha greatly, brought much enlightenment to his Sangha, and from that time he brought the teachings of the gospel. Bodhidharma, I spent nearly nine years in a cave, in a retreat in solitude. And from that retreat came teachings of Shaolin Temple, the teachings of Han Fu, that to this day I practice widely everywhere in the world. And also the same thing happened with the Maharaj teacher. He started off as a teacher offering teachings of enlightenment through love. He lectured and he of course performed many miracles and transmissions and they were all around love. Now, at some point, he looked into the way of Dharma, into the flow of things to see what is the most powerful, the most truthful, the fastest way, the fastest vehicle for his students. And he actually did it here, in this place, in the gorge. And he saw the way of Karma Yoga, the enlightenment through perfect action, merging with eternity through action. And as you all know, whether you're new to this school or have been here for a while, Karma Yoga is our primary practice and it's the vehicle through which many of our Ajan students became liberated. So one of these, I guess, common threads from all of the retreats is that they bring higher teachings that have very long-term ripple effects. And not just from the point of view of the teacher, but mostly for the samgha, for the students. So retreats are never vacations. When Samvara went on his first retreat, he actually worked quite hard. I think he earned a new level of black belt in his martial arts. He also earned the scuba instructor to help his students become better at scuba diving or just teach his students how to scuba diving because many of us had very bad experiences experiences with teaching in a regular school for teachers, instructors. So, she said, never again my students will have negative experience because I will teach them and I will pass this tradition on to them. And so that was all happening while she was in the retreat. But after the retreat, he brought the higher vision, his santa, to all of us and some of the things that came from that retreat had very very long term ripple effects. Let's just say as an example how many of you have benefited from the Enlightenment Workbook? Raise your hands. So that was one of the things that came from that retreat. or practice mystic scuba. I can't see the hands but I can feel there's a lot of hands in the air. So that teaching also came from his retreat. You probably all, a lot of you heard about Abbody, our successful yoga company that brought the teachings of Kali Chakra to the advanced students or to the Bodhans who became advanced students. That Karma Yoga also came from the retreat. So I would like to step back a little bit and tell you about what it felt like to be with Ajahn and to be his first student. And I guess I just wanted to give you a perspective of what it, yeah, what it felt like to be a student. So I met Tamar, excuse me, I met Ajahn when I was in a very difficult place in my life. I was in my late 20s, 28 years old, and I have gotten everything out of life that I could imagine, and yet I was completely miserable. So I knew that there was something in life that I'm missing, that something was missing. Even though in the physical world, everything was in a perfect order and I had everything I wanted and I fulfilled all of the promises of American Dream, there was a big part in my heart that was empty. And I was looking in my heart, I didn't physically look but I knew that there's got to be something there. And I distinctly remember the moment my co-worker showed up at my desk and introduced Ajahn to me, not as an agent, he said, this is your new manager. And when I looked into his eyes, I remember the smile, I remember the radiance. And I don't have a really good memory. So it's not an ordinary memory. It's a memory of meeting your true teacher for the first time in this lifetime. And from that moment on everything changed. Of course I had no idea that things were going to change and I had no idea what it's going to be like and maybe I would have run for the hill. I don't know because at that point on I could not comprehend possibly what my life would be like and what I would be like. Well, that wouldn't be me anymore. That person is long gone. Thankfully. Thank you, Ajan. And there's so much joy, so much love, so much gratitude, and so much awareness in my life thanks to that meeting 23 years ago. So, many details, but I'll give you some highlights. For the first time when I experienced what it was like to be on a path without yet being on a path is when Adan and I were carpooling together and I experienced eternity in his presence without knowing that he was a Buddhist spiritual teacher so on and so forth he was just a person in my car but I experienced eternity and it was so natural it was so simple yet it was so profound that again it's one of those moments that I remember to this day and it was 22 years ago, it was a day long ago, so some of you are probably barely that old. So we were in the car and I experienced a moment of profound happiness and peace. I feel happy for no particular reason. And without knowing it yet, it was my first spiritual experience, actually, because I've never had this moment of happiness and peace before. It was deep, eternal, and true. And I knew the truth of happiness because most of my life I was so deeply unhappy. I became Ajan's student and we had many adventures together. It was adventures through beautiful places of power and nature, but there were also adventures to beautiful and powerful states of attention. And at some point later, we, mostly Ajahn, opened the center in the middle of residential area in San Francisco. And that's when many students were able to come and experience meditation, martial arts, adventures with Ajahn and learn from him. That was a really fun time. There was so much brightness to it. There was so much joy. So much kind of going back to childhood and experiencing dimension of pure joy, beautiful powerful meditations and hope. There was so much hope. And many of the students who you now know as STC's came to study with Ajahn at that time. and serious students that's around and we got to travel to Hawaii together and we in Hawaii we learned the art of yoga mostly through learning skills that would then become very useful in our careers so many of us learned programming, business, design, so the arts and skills that we'll then use to develop our careers and be able to offer them as teachings to future generations of students. When we were in Hawaii, Ajahn spent with us every day of his life. We were meditating, so we were working during the day, learning skills. And we were meditating with him in the evening, and every evening we'd have this exalted, beautiful meditation and Dharma talk. And we also were karma. For those of you who are doing karma yoga for real, you know that there's a lot of obstacles and difficulties that come up. Essentially, it's a way to work through your limitations. And it happens so that the ego tends to defend its limitations and doesn't always want to let go of them and that creates hardship. So, through the process of Karma Yoga, a lot of these limitations have to go. We have to let go of them. And sometimes it's a breeze. And sometimes it's a pretty difficult process. It's a difficult process both for students but especially for the teacher because it's a knot. It's a knot in attention that your teacher works with you together to unravel and loosen so that the light can flow through you more freely and more effortlessly. Hawaii, the most beautiful place on earth, maybe next to Iceland, has become one of the most difficult places for us because this is the place where we really were learning and Ajan stood by us every moment. But because the karma has side effects, you know, the ego has this tendency of being harmful and the person who gets it the most is the person who helps you. So, I got to develop illness and it was becoming quite serious, serious to the point where he had to physically distance himself from us, from his students. But before he did that, he moved us all to Chicago so that we can start our careers. So based on all the skills we learned in Hawaii, we started our careers as professionals. So it was a time when most of us for the first time had a real job. Many people were quite young. It was exciting. We were in a big city. We were making it in corporate America, you know, we were, we all got jobs at big companies, we had good salaries, we had good lives, we were working on our skills, and actually things got much easier in Chicago because we saw that the fruits of our labor and everything that we learned both technically or professionally and spiritually were starting to kind of unravel. It was starting to show its benefits, how things became much more effortless. And so when we were in a good spot and situated in our lives, Ajahn took a retreat. So he took a job I guess it was a club company to work for, but he was doing data warehousing and working with data essentially. I don't know if data warehousing is a thing still. But back then it was a big deal. I was processing large amounts of data and making funds out of them essentially.

1:58:32
And so when he went on the retreat, as I mentioned, he also became a scuba instructor and earned an extra paycheck. And so he was able to do that.

1:58:35
And so he was able to do that.

1:58:36
And so he was able to do that. And so he was able to do that. And so he was able to do that. And so he was able to do that. And so he was able to do that.

1:58:41
And so he was able to do that.

1:58:42
And so he was able to do that.

1:58:43
And so he was able to do that.

1:58:44
And so he was able to do that.

1:58:45
And so he was able to do that.

1:58:46
And so he was able to do that.

1:58:47
And so he was able to do that.

1:58:48
And so he was able to do that.

1:58:49
And so he was able to do that. as I mentioned, he also became a scuba instructor and earned an extra black belt. So it was a job that's never really a vacation. I think the concept of vacation doesn't exist in his mind. But, um, oh, yeah, we're definitely getting a lot on the vision, like what is the next step for the Sangha, what is the next big thing for his students, what will make his students Muslim-ridden. And one of the things that I've observed and I talked to my friends, we agree on that. It's one of the things that make Ajahn the most happy is when he finds new ways to help his students. That brings him so much joy. And we see it, you know, it's really hard to describe, but this is when you see the Ajahn the most happy. The happiest is when he finds new ways to serve his students or when he sees his students overcome some limitation. No matter how small, whether it's a limitation in martial arts, in learning about career, in spirituality, in meditation. When his students started to become liberated, he was like a good mother. He would cry tears of joy. We're so blessed to have this teacher who loves us so much more than he loves anything in the world. Well, maybe he loves his teacher more, but not all the love that he ever had for his teacher, he spilled over and became his love for his students. And I guess there's no more difference, there's just love. So, So from the retreat that he took back in Chicago came many many teachings that are now primary teachings in our school that brought the new generations of students, what we call ST4's, ST5's and now even ST6's. and it goes on and these kind of the punctuation points in Ajan's practice he's always practicing just like us they create openings, opportunities, and new ways for us to grow higher and I think you know I hope that Azaan doesn't mind me saying that but I think what makes him the happiest is when we become when we exceed his skills he wants us to be like him and greater and he is quite great. He is a great martial artist. He is a great technologist, a great manager, a great teacher and he's a great enlightened master and he wants us to exceed that and it's a pretty high bar but I think with the love we have for truth and dharma we can get there. So again thank you Ajahn, thank you my beloved Sangha and thank you place of power and time of power for this amazing opportunity and our amazing life. Thank you, Tara. Hi again, my name is Sambhava. And the part of the mandala that I am very fortunate to be sharing with tonight is a very amazing structure of our school, which is music. So you might have noticed that we meditate to music. So, tonight, I want to talk about Vayu. Vayu is the name of our sangha's music group. And what Vayu is, as an energy, it's the god of the wind. And I can think of no better place than in the Enzo Brigo Gorge, which has the most magical wind on earth, to show these dimensions of Vayu. to Share these dimensions of IU. So to start I just like to take maybe 30 seconds of silence And just feel and become aware of the wind Very nice. So the wind enhances our experience here in the desert Because it has this beautiful

2:04:52
support

2:04:53
and it wraps our experience in Something physical something we can connect to and something that we could remember at home. Oh That's what it felt like meditating in the Angel Brigo desert. There's this beautiful supportive wind That's just blowing all night And the music does a lot of the same thing. It provides a musical way to wrap your experience and experience very beautiful dimensions of enlightenment. So we're gonna listen to a song together. That is a Vahyu song called Padma Sambhava. This is from the Great Teachers of Enlightenment album. And every song on this album is bringing the experience and enlightened aspect of a great teacher of enlightenment. And Padmasambhava was a teacher of Tibetan Buddhism, and Ram Rinpoche once said that Anza Burego has a very similar energy as Tibet. So I thought it'd be nice if we could experience Tibet via Anza Burego tonight together. And the other reason why I wanted to listen to this song is because this song is an amazing collaboration. So this song originally existed, the song that Moodzro wrote, very beautiful. And last year, Bodhi, who's the guitar player from Dazen, the Maha Sangha band, came in and added guitar to this song. And he took a song that was already great and made it even better, which is what a great yogi does so as we listen to a song pay particular attention to the guitar Which is bringing this beautiful? energy That's just as light that sits on top of the entire song And he also does something very beautifully that happens in a lot of these meditation songs which they go directionally up So as you listen to Bodhi's guitar part as it resonates off the walls here, pay attention to that direction up, and you can align with that direction and take your experience in the meditation up.

2:07:02
So we're gonna listen to one song

2:07:03
to focus on the navel chakra. This is Padmasambhava featuring Bodhi.

2:07:08
the the the the so so so so There's another little easter egg in that song that I just remembered. So at the very end, when it comes around to that last big chorus, there's this little keyboard part that comes in that goes... And when we were remixing the song, Mudra emailed me like, hey, I've been meaning for 10 years to add the synthesizer part at the end. Can we put it in? I was like, yeah!

2:08:55
And it reminded me of something that some bar teacher around Marantha Shay used to do. So when they made music albums, the Maha Sangha, they would often re-record them multiple times over and over again. And among other reasons for doing that, besides just the refinement, there was a lesson in that, that you can always improve something and bring more life into it. So I think adding that little synthesizer flair at the end, I think is a good way to put that. So we're going to listen to one more song, and I'd like to point everyone's attention to another aspect of especially the Bayou music that's a common theme, and that is places of power. So you'll notice in a lot of the albums that Bayou's done, I think maybe there's 12 of them at this point. Most of the albums are about different places of power. So the Big Island album is about the Big Island of Hawaii. India Dream is about experiences in India. Napa is about Napa. So there's this beautiful history of our sangha that's encoded into these albums. So I'd like to listen together to a song from the Iceland album which is called the land of fire and ice and this album was inspired by multiple trips to Iceland and in particular I really love this era of the sangha because many things happened when we started going to Iceland. One of those things is an Iceland sangha came out of it and some of those people are here with us tonight. Welcome. The other thing that happened on an Iceland trip is that Aslan had the seeing that we should start teaching public classes again. So all of you that have come in to the sangha since 2017, that stemmed from an experience in Iceland where there was a seeing that there's more people out there and we needed to make the song a bigger. So there's this beautiful direct line from Iceland

2:13:43
to many of you sitting in the desert tonight

2:13:46
that is just really special to me. So we're gonna listen to a song called, I'm gonna butcher this, sorry for the folks from Iceland here, Lundgjökar, I think is how he's pronounced it. And this is a place in Iceland. It's near Lake Myla, which is a beautiful place of power that many people have been to. It's kind of behind it. And the characteristics are actually very similar to where we're sitting right now, where every direction you look, there's these beautiful, tall hillsides and just this immense feeling of space. So the first thing you notice sitting out here, it's very grassy, it's not sandy like this, but you just feel like you're out in the middle of this huge, giant, beautiful space, and you just feel the vastness in every direction. Which is a very similar feeling to how it feels to sit right here. So as you focus on your third eye on connecting to the notes, the aspects, the dimensions of the song and feel together what it feels like to sit in the middle of Iceland, halfway around the world, experiencing space. So this will be one song on the third eye.

2:15:12
of the the the you so You A couple more aspects about that song and music video which I really love. We're going to do this tomorrow night too. It's so beautiful because as Ajahn was talking tonight about this beautiful structure of our lineage and the expansion and how we have so many advanced students who can teach. This place in particular, Lernachukara, is really special because it was a place that Bodhidharma found. of places of power and he was able to take Ajahn there, show him these places of power, and then took our Sangha there and we got to experience more places of power and it's just a beautiful representation of this growth of the lineage that we experience together when

2:16:54
we have these beautiful enlightened states of consciousness. So thank you very much for your time and attention tonight. I'd like to invite Vajradhara to the stage and we'll do one more and then take our next break. Okay good. Wow that was beautiful. So we're on this thing called the pathway to to enlightenment. It's wonderful right? We walked from the parking lot to here and that's the pathway to enlightenment. We went from one place to another place and that's the feature of what it's like to be on the pathway to enlightenment, which is different than a lot of modern spirituality. A lot of modern spirituality you can do out there. It's very fashionable. You can be a spiritual fashionista. You can go to the Amazon and study with a shaman. Or you can bathe in sound, take a sound bath. There's Confucius kind of dimensions you can access. And you can be like what some, what Agam was talking about, you can be a mystic. It's possible, you can do that. But it's not, you don't go anywhere You just it goes from karma to karma you explore different aspects of existence, and that's wonderful That's fun, but it doesn't lead anywhere, so it's not on a pathway. You're not moving from one place to another We just go around in circles We experience one thing and then we experience another and we scratch the mother and modern spirituality is just another explanation for the unexplainable life, this unexplainable experience that we're all in. But there's a point at which you've all gotten to where there's a dissatisfaction, where we're like we've done all these things, we've done our spiritual questioning moments, and say it's there. This thing we call the ineffable. You can't touch it, you can't feel it. It's enlightenment. So we have to get on this pathway. We get on this pathway and we go from one place to the next place, out into enlightenment. From self to E is where we're going. And you know from time to time there's a Buddha, a living Buddha is born and this is a being of tremendous spiritual capacity, tremendous wisdom, tremendous heart, tremendous power and they update the teachings and this has happened throughout history. Throughout history we have examples of great teachers who have come and they needed to update the teachings for the time. And we're in a different time. And there was a time when Padmasambhava came and he updated the teachings for Tibet. There was times of Bodhidharma and he updated the teachings for China. And throughout history we see this. And it's a different time now. And Ram Rinpoche was one of those teachers. He came and he took all these profound teachings of enlightenment, the Maha Mudra, and he fashioned a pathway. And we're on a pathway. What a wonderful, amazing pathway. We have yoga, we have bodhicitta, we have mystic scuba, we've got little Scottish terriers. Right? Isn't it wonderful? Like a pathway that even includes wonderful magical food dogs. It's great. And, uh, and Romeripusha gave this to us. And then Sibara deepened it. He deepened the pathway. He paved it. He put in Infoboost. He put in, like, refueling stations. Now there's a Starbucks on every corner, the pathway to enlightenment. And it's for you, it's a pathway for you. And these Buddhas come and not all Buddhas teach, you know, many don't, many Buddhas don't choose to teach. And when I say Buddha, I say, wholly enlightened being, unborn awareness, no manifestation of self, unborn, not here, not touchable. And some choose to teach it, and when they come to teach it's called a great spectacle. So we're here witnessing the Dharma, deep Dharma. So every time I come to these I'm like, oh my God, this is the best solstice ever. I can't even believe it. I just can't possibly get any better. And then the next solstice comes, I'm like, oh my God, it just blows my mind. I was sitting there as Sambhar was talking, or Ajahn was talking and explaining the Mahamudra as bringing great balance. And what came to mind was this inner difficulty I had. And it was something that I've had almost as long as I can remember. So I was like eight years old. Just a difficulty of just relating to the world, myself and the world. You know, we all have this.

2:25:51
It's called a stain on consciousness.

2:25:54
A stain.

2:25:54
And through just listening to the words, it came into balance. It came into balance, and I saw how I was balanced with everything, and I no longer have that. In one instant, something that had plagued me my whole life is gone. It's just gone. And that's what happens with this great profound darkness. Now you may be like, hey, I've never, I barely felt anything. I don't know what's happening. That's okay. I've been doing this for a long time and it's on the pathway to existence, the pathway to enlightenment and you will be there too. Because it's a pathway. All you have to do is walk down the pathway. This is how the teachings help us. When we engage in the teachings, when we practice it, we get better and better and better. We move further along the pathway to enlightenment. And this is what Buddhas afford. And so it's a great spectacle when these Buddhas come. And they give teachings and many beings come, many beings, not just us, there's many beings that come because they sense the dharma. I was speaking with another shodhan and she was like, did you see that cloud? Many people saw these clouds, like yesterday, it was just this like solo, solitary cloud in the middle of a desert. Don't mind me, I'm just a normal cloud here, right? And she was like, she's like, did you see the cloud? I feel like it was a dancing sky, sky dancing bikini. I was like, there's something magical. There's these beings that come because they feel the Dharma and they want to, they want to learn, but they want to support the Dharma as well. They want to participate in these tremendous dharmas that come. And these dharmas help us move further into that unethical, move beyond just karma, just the repetition that we've experienced, that eventually we get bored of, like, just more of the same. And we have to go beyond that. So these moments we come here to find ways and then Sambhar talked about, Ajahn talked about, we're going to get it, and talked about he's laying the foundation, the operating system of the Maha Mudra, the operating system and that lays the foundation, the corner, the touchstone of enlightenment. But around that, you know, we, you all, right, we're moving on this pathway and we have obstacles, right? Don't you have obstacles? Like they're difficulties, right? I know. They have difficulties, right? There's challenges in life. But these are living teachings, which mean that they help bring into balance the challenges that you have. And those challenges don't become something that's just an obstacle to enlightenment, they become fuel for enlightenment. But we need the Dharma, we need to get on those obstacles. And so we come here to the desert to experience that. I'd like to share with you one very powerful facet of this place we're in, the desert, that has helped me many times throughout my life, coming here and finding it. It helps go beyond obstacles. Because when we come to these teachings, the solstice teachings, they carry for a long time. We really go from solstice to solstice. And there will be currents, underlying currents in the second attention of these esoteric teachings that will take you all the way to the winter solstice and this is a unique solstice because it's a new dharma is released So it's like new version version like 4.0 Like right and and then and then you're on like a whole new version Like it's everything's different and so it's very special and These and we want to engage with the teachings engage with our mind because this is just the beginning. It's the beginning of the unfoldment of the solstice teachings, and they will carry you with you, and you'll learn lessons throughout the next six months, six months and years. But there's this powerful teaching of the desert to go beyond those obstacles, the ones that are the most difficult, the ones that like stop you, the ones you're just like, you're just grinding on. So it's called the Warriors of the Desert. So there's warriors of old that have been here and they hold open the doorways to enlightenment. And they're seen on the peaks, the peaks and the cliffs around us. And they come and they come to help people on the pathway to enlightenment. Because they see people on the pathway and they hold open those doorways maybe one day you will be a warrior holding open the doorway to enlightenment and they're warriors they're strong and if you need strength you need something whatever you're dealing with you need strength to overcome it they will want strength and if you need heart if you're dealing with something maybe you're depressed or discouragement or difficulty in your heart and they will come and they will give you heart and if you need wisdom you need something To engage you need wisdom to overcome and find balance And they will give you balance as well. They will give you wisdom

2:31:26
So I'd like to take a moment

2:31:28
Look at look up at the cliffs up here We're gonna experience the warriors of the desert and let them wash away and give you what you need whether it's strength, heart, or wisdom. We're all three. We can all three come on. Okay? So just a moment. I'm going to do a little bit of a massage. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to do a little bit of a massage. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to do a little bit of a massage. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to massage your ears. I'm going to go to the bathroom. I'm going to go to the bathroom. I'm going to go to the bathroom. Okay, well done. So the warriors are around us and they'll come when you need them. It may be a moment that you had now or maybe a moment as you're driving out, there could be a moment when you need them, and the warriors will come and they will help give you what you need to bring balance to whatever obstacle you're dealing with. So, Calvin Lamo had mentioned in the beginning to set our intent, and it's helpful to do that, it's helpful, the desert is a great time to, we're learning about these teachings but we need to integrate them into our life and we'll have seeings, we'll see what's right for our life, what's the next step on our pathway because this really is a pathway and it's often called like some, as I was talking about, a vehicle and the vehicle is a metaphor for travel and a lot of times if you ever dream and when you're having a dream about the Sangha you'll often dream in a vehicle. It'll be in some kind of a vehicle. I've been on all kinds of vehicles. I've parachuted from the ground into a cargo plane. I've clinked martinis with Diana and Aditya on a cruise ship through the sky. I've been on a great ancient desert caravan with Ajahn and the Sangha and each time there's movement because we're moving from one place to another. Not sure where we're going, but confident of where we're not. Moving forward into enlightenment, into the ineffable, into that which is unknown. and we can alter that vehicle and we can put new things in like Ajahn was talking about. In the Maha Mudra teaching, one of the things that I learned tonight was a new dimension of healing that's in there. It's like a feature, it's an app, download.

2:37:01
It's like I need that.

2:37:02
I need that app. Enlightenment happens because we need it.

2:37:04
Not because, I mean, it happens in the beginning because we want it.

2:37:05
We have an idea.

2:37:06
We have a goal. We have a goal.

2:37:08
We have a goal.

2:37:09
We have a goal. We have a goal.

2:37:11
We have a goal.

2:37:12
We have a goal. enlightenment happens because we need it. Not because, I mean, it happens in the beginning because we want it, we have an idea of what this ineffable is, but eventually it becomes something that we need, and we need to progress. And I need it, I need healing for my yoga.

2:37:29
And so I was like, boop, let's go, download that app,

2:37:32
boop, got it. And it's great, it's amazing features. So take these lessons and journal on them, write down, find lists. Some people are really good at journaling and there's another teacher that went in and she was like, I can't journal for the life of me, but I use Excel. You can do Excel, Google Sheets, you can do PDFs, you can do PowerPoint, many different options for journaling, don't get stuck. thing and make a list organize things we organize existence and that creates what we call the diamond Vajrasattva, diamond mind, diamond yukal that builds and that allows us to move through existence. Alright, thank you all. Okay, we're gonna take 10 minute break so you can we had some enlightenment, we had

2:38:24
some what?

2:38:25
Bathroom time.

2:38:26
Hi everyone, my name is Raja and I will talk about a couple important aspects of our study. First, yeah, so it's about Karma Yoga. Karma Yoga is a very very important practice that we do. But before I jump in, I want to share something which I would call the preliminary, preliminaries for that, which is that there's a difference between knowledge and wisdom. Knowledge is knowing that meditation is good and knowing how to meditate and wisdom is doing it. So, the same way, even more important about Karma Yoga, right? Knowing that Karma Yoga is good for you, it's knowledge, but wisdom is doing Karma Yoga. Okay, that's the preliminary teaching, done. And one, it's simple, right? Two, it's trademarked, right? It's called just do it, right? Like Nike trademarked it, they were smart, right? They knew it. Like if you do it, you're gonna get there. It's very, very true for yoga. So this is very, very important because if you don't do yoga, then you cannot benefit from yoga. So, you know, if you've never done yoga, then you know, I encourage you to give it a shot. It's not gonna be easy. Maybe it's gonna be fun, but it's gonna be tremendous development for you. If you've done yoga before, then you know, it's something that can help you transform. And I want to share a couple of the most important aspects of yoga that I've learned and experienced. So of course, you have to do yoga, and maybe I would add first why, right? Because we all work on establishing our foundation, a strong day job, right? But it's very, very important to add karma yoga on top of it. Because when you have a strong day job you know what you're gonna get out of it right like people who are not even in the sangha right personal power cash flow right you're gonna have good finances so you're gonna be strong right but when you're strong you have money you have power right then the ego is growing it's gonna be big right so it gets inflated right and that's why it's so important to add karma yoga on top of it because karma yoga is the place where you're gonna confront with the self and you're gonna have things that you don't like you know sometimes i might have a day that i don't do yoga and i'm like wow you know my day job is so easy everything is great then i go into a yoga meeting and like nobody does what I ask them to do. And I'm like God! Okay, now I have to practice selflessness again or compassion or mindfulness. Right? God! Happens every day. Right? And it's like okay, okay, okay, now I get the teachings. I understand. It's like and then you know a couple days everything goes fine you know Saturday and Sunday yoga meeting comes and like nobody did their yoga. I'm like God! That's how it goes. I guess you know I haven't done it. I'm a yoga leader right? So it's like you know my job is to help others see the benefits of Karma Yoga. So for some just do it right? So now we can get to the most important teaching that Karma Yoga provides, right? Which is, the most important thing is the place where you are coming from in Karma Yoga, right? And, you know, who am I to tell you, right? I'm here to tell you because I was coming from the wrong place in Karma Yoga, right? So, and over time, I learned through experiences, lessons, failures, and successes, I learned what works the best. The most, you know, one of the transformative experiences was again in Karma Yoga, somebody not doing well, right? And if you are, you know, leading a team or a yoga leader, you know, it's kind of like an energy that starts pulling pulling things down. It's like somebody who is holding onto your bicycle and trying to pull it back. But there are 10 people on the bicycle and five are pulling it back. So it's a very, very challenging situation. So you always have two options. Tell them to let go of the bicycle or help them hop on the bicycle. So in this specific situation what happened was that somebody was not doing well on a you know this was a revenue generating yoga so it was important that we are doing well. Someone was not doing well and we discussed them multiple times and we got to the point that I had to sit down and I had to decide. You know I was still not very experienced in people management or you know I knew that I could learn more. And we got to the point where I had to decide, do I sit down with them and fire them? Or I email them and fire them? Or I sit down with them and listen? And for some reason I decided to listen, even though it was a very, very clear situation. And what happened when I listened, I didn't say anything. I just said, okay, so what would you like to say? And the yogi shared, you know, their part, their concern. And I was like, even though, you know, it was a little bit of an excuse, but I considered it as a real concern. And I said, okay, I accept it. And because, you know, you had a hard time in this situation, let's give it another try and They gave it another try and magically they improved and Then you know they improved again three months later They improved again, and they became one of the top yogis on the yoga So when this happened that taught me the lesson is that when somebody's pulling back the bike Make the effort to have them hop on the bike. It's much more important to try it even multiple times than telling them to let go of the bike, even though it's very very difficult and challenging. So now, so let's just do a short meditation, one song and focus on your heart, one song, closed eye meditation and just focus on your heart and selflessness and let's begin.

2:45:52
So, Oh, You're not alone you the the the so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Thank you. Wonderful meditation. So, now let's look at the other side, right? So, when you do a day job, right? You're going to be strong. But when you add Karma Yoga on top of it, or maybe you don't have a strong day job yet, right? Strong day job, I would say, you know, maybe $200,000, $300,000 a year, that's strong.

2:47:31
So, if you're not there yet, then utilize the opportunity that you can be on Karma Yoga. And it doesn't matter what Karma Yoga, what you do as Karma Yoga. I guess a great example was when I moved to Bollywood long, long, long time ago, well, a decade ago. And before, when I was getting ready to get my first job, somewhere I was like, Ajahn was like, hey, could you help clean Bollywoods? Like, you know, what eventually turned

2:50:54
into Bollywoods Rugby. And I was like, sure.

2:50:58
And I told him, hey, I have to learn coding. So he said, oh, can you do like eight hours of cleaning and learn coding after? I'm like, sure, that should not be a problem. So pretty much seven days a week, doing the cleaning, we spent several months, seven days a week, eight hours a day, just taking care of Bollywoods, building decks, building yurts. And as a result, we went into our first job interviews and got our first tech jobs. So it was a very, very powerful transformation. And I thought that I have to do coding, but I was open to the possibility that my teacher was like because our teacher, believe me, our teacher knows better than we know. So I was like okay let's try and that you know 40, 50, 60 hours of kind of Bollywood's workday per week that gave me more personal power that would be what it would have given me if I like tried to code 60 hours a week and eventually I got there but it gave me selflessness and personal power so that's what you can gain when you do karma yoga so if you want to build up your career it's an extremely good idea we've seen more than hundred people doing it successfully and if you're successful even more important right like showdowns, no. Like, you know, several of us, you know, we can hold down two, three full-time jobs. It's not really a big deal, right? We have to push ourselves a little bit.

2:52:34
But why? There's no reason for it, right?

2:52:36
Yeah, we can make a million dollars in a year, but then not focus on the selflessness. Maybe, you know, get burned out, but make lots of money. That's not the goal. Have one day job. If you are strong, you know, make as much as you can. But on the side, set aside that 10, minimum 10 hours, 15 hours of yoga so that you can learn selflessness. You can develop your selflessness. As you know, all the teachers shared before me, selflessness is the same as meditation, as spirituality, as enlightenment, the development of selflessness never stops. So if you give, if you practice Karma Yoga, you can practice and develop your selflessness every time. Okay, that was that serious part of our conversation. It's over. So, guy gets into a car accident, he dies. You know, he was... You know, we don't have too much time, I don't want you to freeze here, so I'm going to make it quick. He's dead. He sees the light, he was like, oh! He was a true believer, right? Went to church every week, right? So, Jesus shows up, he's like, hey, where are you? I'm Jesus. And he's like, oh, okay, what would you like? He was like, you were a true believer, so you can choose where you wanna go. There's heaven and there is hell. He was like, oh, okay. He was like, I'm actually not sure, because I heard a lot about heaven, but I'm not sure. Could I get a sneak peek into heaven and then decide after? Jesus says, sure, not a problem. He goes to heaven, he's like, okay, this is kind of cool, it's a little bit boring, you know, there are angels flying around, but not that exciting how he imagined, right? There's good food and everything, but he's like, ah, it's not that exciting. He asks Jesus, could I check out hell just to make sure, just to make sure I make the right decision? Jesus is like, okay, sure, nobody ever did this before, but you know, just for you, you know, you've been in the church every Sunday just for you I'm gonna do it Okay, he opens the door they go to they go to hell You know amazing palace like kind of like you know Buddha live like you know super rich everything is beautiful You know marbles Amazing food beautiful people. It's like oh, there's no illness. There is no no death. There's nothing everything is perfect He was like, oh my God, you know, if I compare, I would like to give it a shot and be in hell. And he's like, okay, you know, it's up to you. So, you know, okay. He closes the door, so he goes to hell. He's like super happy, goes to sleep, wakes up the next day, and then he's like, wow, it's so weird, like something smells weird, it's like, you know, there's this rotten meat smell, everything is dark, there are like cauldrons where they are like burning and cooking people, you know, it's like, you know, and then the devil shows up, you know, just imagine like, you know, South Park, you know, has the devil, just a big big buff guy, right? He just shows up and does everybody what to do and it's like really bad. He's like knocks on the door, he's like and then he has to open the door, he's like hey so what about this song? What about yesterday? Like that was a different cut than today. He was like yeah that was the demo, this is the real deal. So you know it's not, what you see is not always what you get. It's very important. Which reminds me, you know, recently I started a new job, and then I was like, hey, you know, I had to go to the office in Palo Alto, it was amazing, I've seen people like face to face, you know, after two and a half years, it was great. And I was like, hey, where can I get my computer? And I was like, hey, I talked to Nancy, and I'm like, okay, hey, Nancy, you know, can you help me get my computer and get everything set up? And then she says, sure, you know, just talk to Jesus, he will take care of it in five minutes, right? And I'm like, wow, if he can do it in five minutes, I will be a true believer. So, but you know, he did it in ten, so still. So, you know, I showed up in church, you know, the next weekend for sure. Okay, so let's then now loosen up, everything is cool right, there's balance. So now let's move on to our last subject. It's going to be very short, I think, maybe. You see, the last subject is sharing the way, right. It is the most beautiful thing that I can imagine and what I experienced is sharing the way. Let it be teaching martial arts, let it be talking about Karma Yoga, let it be teaching meditation or just talking with someone and sharing them what enlightenment, what meditation brings you, what it means to you and maybe how it can help them. It doesn't have to be a teaching context. Some people are like, they are repelled up if you call it teaching, they are like, wow, it's weird. So you can be just called sharing the way. And, you know, I was fortunate enough when I attended, you know, talking about Chicago Times, I remember, you know, she was selfless. So when I came for my first power trip, I visited them in Chicago and, you know, let me stay in her place. And every day, you know, she had breakfast with me and Ndakin. And, you know, we had authentic European breakfast, bread, butter and cheese. It was amazing. But, it was more important that she shared the Dharma. We had hundreds of questions. And she saw our state of mind. She saw that we were stuck in our head. And she addressed those and clarified everything. So when I went back from the power cube, I was a completely different person. It was extremely powerful and there was no specific teaching content. There was no meditation class. There was nothing specific. It was just questions and answers and conversations, just honest conversation, which was really uplifting because someone who was, you know, they were just like, you know, they were intermediate students, the ST3s at that point maybe like middle intermediate but for me they looked like gods like like literally like they had so much light in them and so much power right they all had tech jobs they were very strong they meditated they worked very hard and then they came home and then they worked on yoga. So pretty much they dedicated their life to it. And that light was just shining from all of them. It was a very, very magical experience. And later, interesting story, I really wanted to teach meditation in 2009. And Ajahn was like, you have a job, get a job. And then I was like, okay, let me push it. I think I was like three months left in teaching meditation, 2009, 2010 maybe. I was like, okay, let me push. I got a job. And I was like, okay, can I teach now? He was like, ah, nah, there's only three weeks left. It's not enough. I was like, I can bring in maybe one student in like three, four weeks. He was like, nah. So even though I was super excited to teach, I had to wait eight more years to teach meditation. But what I wanna share is one of the most elevating, one of the most transformative experiences that I had in 2017. Maybe you were here in De Anza Borrego, maybe, I don't remember. But we had a really powerful solstice and at that solstice, someone announced that, and now is that okay we're gonna start teaching meditation again because there are many many souls you know many of you they are they're calling they need it so we need to go out there and help them and share the way and two weeks after about two weeks one or two weeks after the solstice as I was like oh let's go to the movies I'm thinking Japan town you know we rented like a room and watched Wonder Woman. And in my mind I kept thinking, okay, how is this gonna play out? You know, how can I help? How can I be of service? But it didn't come together yet. I didn't know, I just knew that I'm gonna teach as soon as possible. But I didn't know how and where and how it's gonna play out and if you know it's the first Wonder Woman movie right in the first one of the last scenes there's blah blah blah everything save the world you know you know those kind of things who's gonna sacrifice themselves super selfless it's cool and then Wonder Woman says it's only love that's gonna save the world right she says that and you know we were there with somewhere in the theater so and then my heart opened I started crying and then I realized for us saving the world is saving the world saving students one student at a time by teaching meditation. That's when it clicked for me. And that was the motivation that helped me to go out and teach meditation. And from after that everything clicked together. The place, the time, and everything worked out. But that was the moment when something shifted and opened my awareness to how I can be helpful and we can be helpful to new students. So that's what I wanted to share today. Thank you very much for listening. It was a pleasure.

3:03:00
All right, next up is Odin Dharm. I'm walking some kind of path up to here.

3:03:17
All right, here we go. All right, new windscreen. Thank you.

3:03:25
Hi, everyone. To continue our journey through the mandala, to building the mandala, to discovering this mandala, and what a journey it is. What, is everybody else having as much fun as I am? This is so amazing. I'm here to talk about success but what does success feel like because there has to be a why, right? So we do yoga, we hear all these amazing stories and some of these amazing stories like we hear some of the stories that Raja was talking about, this true struggle. So it s like why do I want to do this stuff, right? And we ve had many students here who have had measures of success. I'm one of them. But many students here have had measures of success in the school. And what we got from this is truly remarkable. And so that's what I want to talk about. So that you know. Um, so success is, again, it's a key aspect of our school. It's really the culmination of practice. It's where everything comes together. Everything in the practice of yoga, everything in the practice of dharma, it's where it comes together. It comes together in balance. Actually, this is so perfect. It comes together in balance, and we really see what yoga is. We see what the practice of Dharma is, which is the practice of yoga is union, but we become unified with that practice of yoga. We actually see, we become one with that practice. And so it's something that is very concrete in our school. So success is usually is something where we try to achieve something. We try to achieve a result. In our school a lot of times what we do in yoga is we try to achieve financial results, we try to achieve something because what this does is it makes it very real, it makes it very real in this world because a big reality in this world is that of the power of money and if you don't come to balance with the power of money this can really give you a hard time in this world, especially for psychically sensitive people. So we put so much emphasis on financial success, not only because it's very practical, but also because it shows us that our spiritual practice is real. One time I asked Ajahn, going through this crazy period of yoga, and I was asking him all about it and he said, you're like Buddha under the Bodhi tree. And Buddha under the Bodhi tree, when he achieved enlightenment, he touched the ground. And that touching of the ground was where he said, or he realized that his enlightenment was real. It was grounded in reality. And that's exactly what we're doing in Karma Yoga. And that's exactly what we're doing when we achieve success in yoga, right? But success is not just about the financial results, it's not just about the, I mean that's nice, it has its benefits, right? But there's a few things that success is not, and it's really important to understand that. So success is not like once you become successful, everything goes your way. I can assure you that everything still does not go your way all the time. So it's not like everything magically happens for you in your favor. It's also not like I tell people that, so I'm financially independent now, right? People ask me, like, wow, you're retired, that must be nice. You must be, and you moved to Hawaii, so you must be sipping Mai Tai's in Hawaii, because that's what you're supposed to do in Hawaii when you retire and whatever, and I'm like, no, actually, I work harder than I ever have worked before now. I actually focus on Toe Now more than I ever did, and that really, really surprised me because I thought that that would just all kind of work itself out because I have very good toenail. But no, I actually spend an inordinate amount of time

3:08:37
working on toenail, so that doesn't go away.

3:08:41
It's not automatic security.

3:08:43
All the money could go away. Like, I could lose all of my money, right? So it's not like automatic security and then I'm done. Success is not being done. And that's a key thing to understand is that you're not done. It's not about that, right? But, you know, yeah, I mean, I have to work at preserving my wealth and I have to work at doing something different, at being smart. When you're successful, you became successful because you made smart decisions and you also made a lot of stupid decisions and you realized that wasn't the way to go. But it's not like that work doesn't go away. You still have to work at the practices of this school, at the core practices of karma yoga, right? You know, and ultimately, really, at death, everything is gonna be taken away, right? So at death, it's gonna be like, okay, I became successful and all I got was this stupid T-shirt. Is that what it is? No, that's actually not what it is, but it's just really important to understand

3:09:57
that it's not about these physical things and these physical manifestations. These physical things and these manifestations are important and that's what we work for because that's what makes success real. That's what makes our practice real. But success, what it feels like and what it is at its core is an awareness of something. So I remember the first time I got a job where I made $100,000 a year. And that was a big accomplishment. It took a lot of work for me to get to that. But that was a big accomplishment. And then something clicked. It was like, I know that I will never go below that level ever again. Because I know, except for that buddy when we started paying ourselves minimum wage.

3:10:57
That was fun. It was a tough time, we took a hit for the team.

3:11:02
Jay and Shintomani know about this. But anyway, it was like, I knew I had the awareness to do that any time again, even if I lost it all. And the same thing when I made $100 an hour for the first time. When I made $100 an hour for the first time, something clicked. And I knew I was at this new level. It was like getting a black belt in consulting.

3:11:27
And I knew that I could always get to that level again.

3:11:31
I had an awareness. So success, the awareness of success is how to be successful. That's one of the things that you're aware of. Right now, because I got a business inquiry, I can look at any business, and I advise a lot of businesses, and I can look at them, and I can basically see where they're at, I can see the challenges that they're facing, I can see what they're trying to achieve, and what's in their way, and very, very quickly comprehend all of that stuff and very quickly suggest concrete steps that they can take in the direction of success and that helps them skip a lot of steps, a lot of heartache and it works, right? And it's just because Right? So, it's an awareness of not only what it takes to be successful, but also it's an awareness of what's important

3:12:24
and what's not important.

3:12:26
Right?

3:12:27
So, I can look at that business, I can say, eh, don't worry about this stuff over here. Focus on this. Right?

3:12:35
It's an awareness of what's important in my life. Success and awareness, It's an awareness of what's important in my life. Success and awareness, success and liberation. There's just a lot of stuff that I used to worry about before that I just don't worry about anymore, right? It's like I don't sweat a lot of small stuff anymore. That comes with success. And it's nice, it's really nice, it's wonderful, it's fun. You can have a lot of fun in success. It's fun. You can have a lot of fun and success. So, it's an awareness of what's important, an awareness of what to do and what not to do. You can point the way, you can point the way for other people. And you can act in a certain way, actually you can act without fear. So, I remember in, especially when we were doing yoga and business and doing all these new adventures or just going out and consulting and doing karma yoga a lot of it I was just like freaked out all the time and it was just this you know I just didn't really know what to say and what not to say and I took a lot of chances and stuff But I had a lot of fear and There isn't that fear anymore this that crippling fear that gets one to Not say something or be like oh I shouldn't say this thing to this person and in my job or business because if I take that chance I don't know what they'll do or whatever it is. Having that fear it just went away and it's because I really have nothing to lose anymore. And that's just because I have this awareness that doesn't go away. So success brings an awareness it brings something that doesn't go away. A lot of people here have their spiritual names and when you get your spiritual name it's because you got to a place in your incarnation, in this incarnation, in this cycle where you're not the same person anymore. You have that forever. You have that forever in this lifetime and beyond. So, it's the same with other levels of success. That success in the Dharma, success in yoga doesn't go away. It's not like success of, you know, that you hear about, I guess, I don't know, where in the papers or something like that, where people are like, yeah, I made a lot of money and I became successful.

3:15:47
And so again, death will take all of that away,

3:15:51
I assure you.

3:15:52
But there's an awareness that we get

3:15:54
in practicing the Dharma and being successful in the Dharma. It doesn't go away. It's here with us. I would encourage everyone to look at their practice, their spiritual practice, the practice of the Dharma as cumulative. So we build on successes that we have. So everybody, you made it here, that's very, you're very successful. You made it here. You made it to this wonderful desert, to this wonderful place, to this wonderful time. You made it on this path. You had the awareness to make it here. And by the way, you're all doing wonderful. I mean, it's late, it's been like what, five hours or something like that? And you guys are just doing amazing. Alright, I think back in the day I'd be falling asleep at this point.

3:16:57
So, thank you, I just wanted to say that.

3:16:59
You guys are doing amazing. But look at your experience as cumulative. Look at it as something that you build on. You build on success. Success after success, you build on that. And it's not, so everything that you've done in your life brought you to this moment. Everything that you've done in your life brought you to your practice of yoga. Everything that you are doing in your practice of yoga is bringing you to your success. And not only in this life, everything you've done in this life, but if you have a penchant for an awareness of this, everything you've done in previous lives has helped you come to this moment and come to the success that you will experience or that you have experienced in yoga and the practice of Dharma. So it's really that success in its essence is something that is always there. It goes on and on. I mean there's always something more to do, right? And that's the beauty. It's just like enlightenment. It goes on and on. So you can always build on your success. But it's a potential. It's something, the awareness of success is the ability to look at everything. That blade of grass, that yoga, that yogic idea, that student who, you know, might have had a hard time but you stuck with that student and you said, hey, you know, let's keep trying. And then they became one of your most successful yogis. Right? Or in your own mind, in your own belief, in your own experience, just telling Just telling yourself that you can. When the whole world tells you you can't. It's that potential. It's basically to say, I can look at something and I can see the Dharma in something. The Dharma is success. One time, Ajahn, when he was talking to us about our yogas, he said, you know, Steve Jobs could look at any one of your businesses and see a billion dollar business. He could say, and I was like, what? My business doesn't have, isn't a billion dollar business. And I just didn't have that awareness. But he has that awareness. He could see that too. Because Ajahn saw success very, very clearly. He saw that potential. And when you become successful in the practice of Dharma, in the practice of yoga, you really see that it is in everything and that it's not exclusionary. It's not like some people can become successful and some people can't or this can be successful and this can't. Everything can. Absolutely everything, positively everything and everyone and every endeavor in the Dharma. That is the essence of the Dharma. So we are black belt school. And for me what this means is that that level, that high level of practice is something that is so part and parcel, so core to what the practice of the Dharma is, even at the beginning, or to the middle, or the end. The beginning, the middle, there is no end, right? But it's really all there. So I can look at that and I can see that. I can see without exception that everybody can become successful, that every yoga can become successful. And that is because success is an awareness. It's wonderful. And when Ajahn saw this, he would transmit it to us many, many times. So before App Buddy became successful as a yoga, as an enlightenment yoga. So App Buddy was a successful enlightenment yoga, which is no small endeavor. It's huge. And so many things had to come together. And it was because we did the work. We did a lot of work. So success is a lot of work. Whenever you are doing a practice of yoga or a practice of dharma, there's something to figure out. Right? I think in the Mahamandala that we learned today, Ajahn said, it's an ordering. We have to bring order to something.

3:22:56
We have to bring it together.

3:22:57
We have to bring it in balance. And it's very technical. But there's something to figure out. And when you're figuring things out, there's struggle. So success is not without struggle. But there's a right struggle, right? Buddha talks about a lot of right stuff, right? Right this, right that. The left one, no, just kidding. But it's the right struggle. And the struggle rightly, and actually this is something I learned more after App Buddy became acquired and especially more after I became liberated and just with more and more success is that I don't struggle with struggle so much. So, there's a willingness. Like I said before, I do more things now than I think I've ever done. And it's both internal and very concrete, right? But I'm always busy. And I'm always doing the dharma because the dharma is so core to my life and to what I do because I see that it works. So there's no internal struggle of like, should I do this? I don't know if I want to do this anymore. Oh my God, this is hard or anything like that. Because I see so much benefit to myself and others by engaging in it

3:24:38
that I want to do nothing else. I'm all in.

3:24:40
And that's an awareness that came with success. So that's what success feels like success feels like you're all in Success is feeling the essence. It's seeing the essence in all things And what they can become the seeing the potential and all these things and what they can become and knowing that all things Can become successful Can go into their true potential can be ordered. It just really is natural. It's a very natural state. So like I said, Ajahn showed us this many times. And he would do this through transmission. So there's a slow way to success. And a slow way to success is trial and error. A lot of trial and error. Falling on your face and being like, whoop, that didn't work, okay, let me get back up and let me try this, right? Doing a lot of QA.

3:25:45
Ha ha ha ha ha.

3:25:46
And that doesn't go away, that's still, you know,

3:25:49
so yoga is still gonna have to do a lot of QA. There is a lot of trial and error, but then there's transmissions and one of the most amazing aspects of the school are transmissions and transmissions of awareness and since success is an awareness it's an awareness that can be transmitted right so and what that did for me when Ajahn would transmit the awareness Success is what would really help me see my success more and more. And work towards it. It would give me the ability to work towards success in a very efficient way. Success is cutting, I mean, the awareness of success is cutting away a lot of the bullshit.

3:26:43
You just know. You know what you got to do and you work that what you work you work towards it Right, but it's not a formula. It's not something that you know, I can just say In every case you just follow You know the 12-step program to success Because again, it's an awareness and for an awareness to work you have to be open You have to be open to what you're working on and then you can let the awareness of success, the awareness of the potential of everything to be successful work. You can let it work. So knowing this essence or seeing this essence and having this transmitted to us, I think was very, very essential for us. So something I'd like to do tonight, I'd like to transmit this awareness of success. So we're just going to sit for a moment in silence. I'd like you to look up this way towards me. And you can bring a soft focus to the third eye. Just try to still your thoughts and we will go into this awareness of success together. So let's begin. I'm going to do a little bit of a massage. So I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. I'm going to close the microphone. Thank you

3:31:19
Yeah, so believe in your success Believe in the success of the school. There's there's so much proof look around and Talk to God all the senior students There's just so many amazing examples of people who just come to profound awarenesses of the culmination of practice in the Dharma. Whether it's the practice of scuba, the practice of martial arts, the practice of karma yoga, the practice of meditation, the practice of bodhicitta, the list goes on. There are people here who are masters. They have this awareness and it's something we love to share and that everyone can realize. And that's really what success feels like. That is the essence of success. That's the importance of success and really what's important about it. Wonderful, thank you very much. Hi friends, I'm Savitri and we are in the home stretch. I know it is very late and some of you traveled incredibly far today and I am grateful to be with you here. We're almost there. You have about 10 minutes with me and then Ajan will come back and conclude this evening's adventures and then we will safely walk out of the desert and drive back to our residences to get some rest. But before we do that, my piece of the mandala to offer to you is an empowerment. So for those of you who are brand new, this is your first desert trip with us, this might be your first empowerment. So I'm absolutely honored to get to give you this gift of power. Bodhidharma was talking about transmissions. Ajahn also mentioned both empowerment and transmissions in his early remarks. remarks and both essential aspects of our Buddhist mystic practice and they're a way to very quickly advance on your own pathway to enlightenment. Transmissions, the one that Pabla Mamo did, the one that Bodhidharma just did, are a way of opening and sharing a particular awareness. And then empowerments are what they sound like. They allow you to receive a measure of power that you can apply to whatever aspect of your life needs refinement. Whichever piece of your life needs more balance and order and improvement. So they are a gift of power. Some of them are specific. So sometimes we'll do empowerments related to career, to our karma yoga projects, to martial arts, to bodhicitta, and some of them are general. And the general ones you can choose where to apply it. So tonight's is a general empowerment. Probably throughout the course of this evening, starting with Paul and Lama's opening about setting your intent, something may have been bubbling up for you of how do you want to use this time in the desert. So whatever that is for you if it's taking a step up in your yoga, in your career, your practice of compassion, your practice of martial arts or possibly something really fundamental if you don't have a living situation that's good right now you might use this empowerment to find a place to live that's safe and beautiful for your meditation practice. Or if you don't have a job at the moment, great idea to use this empowerment to get a job, any job, so that you can continue your path of career and success and enlightenment. So I want to share a couple of brief stories, a few that I sourced from my friends and one of mine about how we use empowerment. So Bodhidharma and his remarks, he actually spoke to a lot of it. He shared a story with me about an empowerment of yoga that he received a few years ago when they were in the final stretch of building this business of AppBuddy. and it was a yoga empowerment and from it he had the he developed the awareness that he was absolutely capable of doing whatever he needed to do and through that awareness he was able to lead the company through some tremendous difficulties to this successful powerful acquisition. Chintamani shared a story from way back. So I'm one of the SC3s and we've all been around for 20 plus years, give or take.

3:36:34
So this was in the early years

3:36:36
and she was already a black belt when she met Ajahn and came into the school. And in those early years, she received a martial arts empowerment. And through that empowerment, she had an awareness that went beyond the physical so she was able to use that empowerment and see the subtle energy that was the dynamic current between people. She also had an insight into her own self-doubt and limitation and through the combination of that recognition and seeing energy she was able to transform transform not only her practice of martial arts and sparring but also her ability to gain confidence in sitting in a job interview and having that kind of energy exchange with someone and then succeeding in projects at work and absolutely excelling in teamwork. All from the one seed of this one empowerment. So what empowerments do is they give you the ability to have a particular insight and if you combine that power, that insight with your intent and you put in the work, then your life transforms. So when I take stock of my life right now, I feel very similar to Bodhidharma's description and something that Tara was saying earlier. earlier, the circumstances of my life are so far beyond what I ever would have imagined when I met Ajahn 20 years ago. I am so grateful and I have such a cool life and it keeps getting better and that doesn't mean there isn't struggle or things like my dad going into the hospital or you know the things the things that happen in life but I also have a skill set with which to meet those and so many gifts along the way. And it's all from these 19.7, give or take a few days, years of practice, of the teachings, the practices, and especially the transmissions and the empowerments that I have received. One example of those was in the end of 2012 or the beginning of 2013. It's also yoga empowerment that I used to take the project I was working on with a few of you at the time to the next level. We needed to do something. We needed to get to 100 users of this piece of software we were building. And we used that empowerment and we did it. And then what happened is that I ended up with this super cool job opportunity right on the heels of that, using that flow of energy from that empowerment. And the next thing I knew in like 2013, 2014, I was getting to build products that were used by millions of people. And I also had the opportunity to face plenty of my fears, including public speaking. So I was regularly presenting to C-level executives including the CEO and then I was tapped to be the spokesperson and be interviewed by journalists from the BBC and PR. My team even once had our picture on the cover of the business section of the New York Times for a project that we were working on. Cool project around suicide prevention actually. So, things I never imagined, all from the seed of this yoga empowerment. So, I'm going to offer an empowerment to you, for you to use, as I've mentioned, in whatever aspect of your life you want to refine and take to the next level. You don't need to do anything right now, except be still and be receptive and be open. So we're going to use the power of this lineage, the light of this exquisite desert, and the incredible abundance of the summer solstice. Quinnis and Parma will listen to one song. If it helps you, you

3:40:44
can have a soft focus on a chakra, but really just be still be open softly dazed toward me and let's begin.

3:40:57
the the the Thank you. the the Thank you. the the the the the the the Thank you. you Thank you. the the the the Thank you. Are you ready for Ajahn to come back up? All right. Wow. Thank you. Beautiful teachings. All right, everyone.

3:44:34
We're going to take a 10-minute break, and this is going to be the last break.

3:44:46
When you come back, I'm going to talk to you guys for maybe 10 minutes and after that I'm gonna hit the road but I think it's a good idea to take a break before we finish everything okay thank you so this is a very very very This was a mandala of teachings where all of the teachers worked together in balance and in unity. And each teacher had so many points and dimensions and powers that they were transmitting, showing, exposing that all come together in balance. So this is the mandala that we are building. It is a mandala of dharma that is very multidimensional. You see, the Maha Mandala is something that comes from me. So I'm, if you imagine a mandala, a circle, I'm at the center of that circle. And then the other teachers are different layers, the next layer out, the next layer out, the next circle and then we all work together. However, I extend Ram Rupesh, my teacher, he's at the center of my mandala by him. I didn't do it myself. This is one of the powers of the Maha Mandala. Originally the teacher will accept you as a student and then you, and then the teacher brings you into the dharma, into that structure. And then the teacher is at the center and you're somewhere in the structure. But then you extend that and then you become the center of the mandala. And all the shodhans are extending me. And they're creating their own mandala where they're the center of the circle. This is a very kind of fractal kind of structure, but this is exactly how it is. And this is what we call a lineage. This is how a lineage works. It is a connection to enlightenment, to a guru, to the guru's guru, and then the student of the guru, and all the students of the guru. A lot of times it's depicted in a lineage tree or sometimes there's a picture of the Buddha. Buddha's at the center and you see maybe he has six or eight of his notable, noble enlightened students and it shows the adventures that they go through in one Tanka, but there's that connection, the connection to enlightenment and then all of the things that extend that, that are part of the same mandala. So the teachings tonight are a mandala that we are creating right now, which is an actual teaching, but it's a teaching within the mandala, within the maha mandala. So the maha mandala it is something that opens, close, changes, extends the greatest deepest enlightenment and it's something that we experience together. Something that we we co-create together, especially the showdowns and the teachers.

3:50:30
And it's a really, really beautiful thing.

3:50:31
The thing that makes the mandala work, the ultimate thing where the mandala is propelled from is from the heart, it's from love. Love makes the mandala work. Without love, the mandala is not there. It's just gone. So, you know, I love my teachers so much. And it was because of that love that I was able to like really access the heart of this teaching. And when the shodans are teaching, they have so much love. They've been working so hard, they've been developing themselves so much. They have so much love for me, for the dharma, for the school, that then all of the ten thousand dimensions of the mandala are available to If you, you know, like, kind of just want to do your own thing, you cut yourself off from the lineage. When you are in the lineage, alive and grateful and filled with love, then the 10,000 dimensions dimensions of the mandala are new and even new students I mean the mandala is there in the beginning and all the way beyond you know the advanced teachings it is the advanced teachings but it's also the beginning to end at the enlightened teachings so This is a very very beautiful thing I think that they showed on did an amazing job Worked in a wonderful way sharing the Dharma the way of balance community You know There's so much to the You know There's so much to the Maha Mandala such a big thing such a beautiful thing It is not just The Letting go of All things to be one with all things It is to accept all things. You know, so many of my teachings, so many of my teachings have been, hey, when you have an angry person, here's the Dharma. Hey, when you lose something, here's the Dharma. Hey, when you are depressed, here's the Dharma. So many of the teachings throughout the years have been how do I take something difficult, something I don't understand, something that I see as separate or trouble, and how do I see the Dharma in it? which we would call the advanced yoga of the Maha Mandala, is accepting the universe, accepting life and everything that appears in life, accepting it as enlightenment. So in beginning enlightenment, we always say, stop thought, be empty and then in that there's a liberation and then the Maha Mandala is something where there's an acceptance of whatever shows up whatever shows up in your mind there's a way to make it like so on my retreat I started meditating in a different way. I've been able to stop thought for a long period, for a long time. My basic practice is I can sit, I wake up and sit down and meditate and you know, it seems like a 15-20 minute experience but six hours go by. That's my basic practice. But on this retreat, I've had a different experience. And it is an elevated one. And it's an experience where through practicing the yoga, the Mahamandala, I've come to a different place in my meditation where I'm actually not trying to stop thought. I'm actually trying to have all thought. Which means that I've been practicing this yoga where there's 10,000 things where you have to put them into balance. And now it became my normal meditation practice. So when I sit down, I'm not trying to like just push things out or stop thought. I'm trying to actually open my mind to all thoughts. Not just thoughts. Thoughts are suchness. They are things that are an expression of enlightenment. So when I sit to meditate now, I know it sounds like a funny thing, but I try to open my mind to all things, good and bad, up and down, they don't have those things right? And where in connection with all things I find in myself that light that strengthens brightness of all the worlds and then I co-create the opening and unfoldment of enlightenment. So I'd like to show you, you know, give you a little, just a little vision of that. Of not just trying to stop that, but to let everything in your mind shine. You know, this is something that my teacher said. He said, you know, all these worlds are shining in my mind. actually, oh, talk about, uh, Techno Zen Master. Let's do that, all these worlds. Because it's, you know, my teacher used to talk about, you know, like, the universe is so complicated, and it's like, there's, everything exists, and it has a power, and everything has its own point of view and to bring all of those things into luminosity is the height of enlightened yoga. And yeah, that's really, you know, what I've been doing. I've been practicing this yoga where there's, let's say, 10,000 things, 10,000 dimensions. Even tonight, what was shared with the yogis was like a thousand dimensions. The Shodons were sharing a subject and many, many, many dimensions about the subjects. And then it all comes into this complete understanding, which is our lesson for the solstice. And it's all a place of balance, of many dimensions, of power, of understanding, of wisdom, of humor, of love. And these are the expressions of this unfoldment of the mandala where we can let all of these things into our minds and to see them in illumination. So we're gonna sit just for one last song and I'd So, as I said, I'm just going to reopen this mandala and all the dimensions that the Shodans were teaching in this structure, in this luminous, balanced structure of unity. Okay. Let's begin. I'm playing the music and I don't have the headphones with me.

3:59:59
Somebody else does, right? Aha!

4:00:03
Aha!

4:00:05
See? He's part of the mandala. Don't worry, we'll get there. Tell me when you're ready. So, so many of the, um, Sharan's had so many beautiful teachings, um, you know, called in Lama in the beginning, the intention, starting with intention, is such a strong teaching. When you come here, you say, why am I here, what am I gonna do here? I want to meditate deeper, like I want something in my spirit, I don't even know what it is, but I know something in me, there's some intent. As we start to develop that and sit here, it starts to unfold. You guys are ready? Okay, because I could just recapitulate these amazing teachers. Amazing teachers, amazing, amazing teachings. I really love the TARS teachings. So great, beautiful, reminded me of like our early days. Really fun days. I remember just one time Tara was coming to talk to me and I was sitting in my cubicle but I accidentally went into a sappakoppa samadhi and then after a while I was like oh I better stop. I almost went and I turned around and Tara was standing you know, she's looking at me. She's all, no one sits like that. And I'm all like, oh, you're right. Because I was sitting up pretty straight. But I think she was seeing like light. It was like pretty early. And I gave her a hard time because I didn't talk about enlightenment for like months. She was like sitting there going, I'm interested in like spiritual stuff, really. Murr. I don't know why. And then a little while later, Ajna was there. Ajna and Tara were the first two students. That's a very strong, very, very strong comment for an enlightened teacher. The first two students and then Ajna, back then we called him the boy wonder, it took a while, eventually, the man wonder, okay anyway, Ajna was the one who had the connection to, you know, get the first meditation center. And that's where all the SC3s came from. So first it was just me, Tara, and Ajna for a long time. And we were fooling about in all sorts of wonderful, magical, enlightened experiences. But Ajna found the center. We had to do a whole bunch of work to make it good and beautiful and then so much Dharma would flow out of that. I can keep going on commentary of everyone's teachings but it was they were just beautiful teachings so many beautiful teachings it's absolutely gorgeous that you guys have done but you you know, those teachings stand on their own and they're all within the mandala. So what I'd like to do is I'd like to do one last meditation. Focus on the third eye, just still your mind, and this is where within the mandala all of these teachings come together. Alright. Let's see. Okay. It's not working. It's not playing. It's playing and not playing. It's like, it's playing and not playing. It's very, very powerfully spiritual that way. It's that pure paradox.

4:05:02
Okay, let's start from the beginning.

4:05:06
I asked the Zen master, what is Zen? He said, all these words are shining in my mind.

4:05:20
The movement of a light in a world Everything comes in one moment He said, all these words, all these words, He said, all these words are shining in my mind. All these words. All these words. All these words.

4:06:47
It's also shining in my mind. Zen to wa

4:06:50
Koukutsu no meisu de aru You said it is life. Zen to wa Juu to wa

4:06:56
You said it is life. Sono mebu de aru Zen to wa

4:06:59
Uta kara areta

4:07:00
Koukutsu no meisu de aru I asked the Zen master, what is Zen? Zen is the movement of the body, the mind, the body, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the mind, the I ask the Zen Master, what is Zen? What is Zen? He said, all these worlds are shining in His eyes. All these worlds. He said, all these worlds are shining in His eyes.

4:08:11
All these worlds.

4:08:14
He said, all these worlds are shining in His eyes. All these worlds, He said all these worlds, all these worlds are shining, all these worlds are shining in His eyes. He said it is life. It's an immoral idea, Jesus. Young love, son of man, I am. Gentiles, you are the serpent. Corporeal race, they are. Gentiles, little and famous, Jesus. Young love, son of man, I am. Okay, beautiful. I'm happy to end our first evening with this consideration And I think that song is pretty pretty cool It really represents And I really love to hear it in Ram Bhupesh's voice

4:09:48
It's like all these worlds are shining in my mind, and that's exactly what the Mahabandhala is

4:09:55
Only it's for real It's more than a cute little thought. And I hope that today I wanted to give you an introduction to it, and then tomorrow we go deeper into it. And definitely, this is a beautiful construct of the mandala. And Shodan, you did an absolutely beautiful, impeccable job. So thank you all so much. Now guess what? This was just 12 minutes sitting down so there's no break. You guys already had a chance. Okay? So now what we're doing is we're leaving. But let me tell you this. Tomorrow we're meeting earlier. One hour earlier. And we're gonna get to the parking spot here by six o'clock and then we're gonna somehow make our way here we're gonna go a little deeper into the gorge tomorrow night you go deeper and it's more powerful so the showdowns are gonna have some strong teachings and everything will be good and wonderful. Now, let's be very, very, very focused and organized as we leave. Strong tonneau, don't mess around, be very clear and focused. It's very important to respect this place. Don't leave litter behind. Clean it all up. See this is what the show dogs are going to have to start doing. Well I'm sure if I just got up and walked away, I'm sure some baba would come over and say the same. We don't leave this place dirty. We clean up everything we brought. And even if you find something else that you didn't bring, if it's garbage, you take it out. We want this place cleaner. That's how we honor this place. And when you honor this place physically, and that's just something that you show outwardly about how you care about the place inwardly, and that's how we can connect to the power of the place. So, make sure we leave this place clean. We've already taken our last break before you guys can get back to Anza Borrego unless you're super fast on the before you guys can get back to Anza Borrego unless you're super fast on the walkout and good job everybody well done have a good night be focused be careful




Transcribed with Cockatoo
