0:00:00
I find a way to create unity by drinking it.

0:00:06
Connection. Merging.

0:00:08
I merge with the water. The water merged with me. So it's kind of funny, but it's true. In all ways. And also, I mean, that's just drinking the water. That's physically. But if I hold the water, and if I look at it, and if I get to the spiritual essence of things, the glass of water becomes meditation. The glass of water turns into light and there's no difference between the glass of water and me. This is meditation. The thing that creates suffering is when you exist and dwell in the individual self, the limited self, the ego. When you pin your hopes, your existence on that separate self, then you suffer, then you have pain, then you have delusion, confusion. And that is the essence of suffering, is to be out of unity, is to be in a limited view. Where you say, my feelings are real. But are they? They're so transient. What's real must be something that persists, that doesn't just come and go, that is forever. So thoughts and feelings, concepts, ideas, all the stuff that swarms around in your head, those things just come and go. There's something beyond that which is eternal. We don't see that when we exist in self-thought, in self-experience, in self-attention. We experience it when we meditate. When we meditate, when we still our thoughts, we go beyond thought, we, our finite self-consciousness opens and we merge with eternity. So the self cannot be trustful, and therefore you have to meditate to see a bigger picture beyond the self. Because the self always is going to bring you into suffering, limitation, pain, trouble, delusion, confusion, you know, something that just gets you into a bunch of problems. So meditation is the way out of self. But there has to be a recognition that your thoughts, your mental attitudes, or your emotions, your ideas, the way that you look at things, it all comes from a limitation, which is selflessness, which is enlightenment, which is unity. But if you're just caught up in self thought, self ideas, self feelings, then you're, you're, you're caught in suffering. That's, that's what pulls you into separation. The great suffering of the self is that you are not in unity. You are self and everything else is other. This is the pinnacle of egotism, that everything else is not you and only you are you. And that creates so much trouble. You know, the more that you can make connections to anything, make a friend, understand nature, learn a skill, learn anything, the more that you make a connection to anything, the more you have unity. It could be learning something, it could be looking at a flower, understanding something. It could be exercise, martial arts, career success. Anything that's positive gives you a sense of unity, gives you that connection. And then everything where you say everything is other than me, that creates disempowerment, it creates darkness, confusion, delusion. So that's the self. The self and other is the big trouble with the spiritual path towards enlightenment. So I remember once, a long time ago, when I was a student of my teacher, I had a very interesting dream. In my dream, I was a student talking to a Zen master. It wasn't my teacher, it was just some Zen master. And I was like, I'm so confused. I don't know what to do. How do I understand spirituality? I was asking questions to the Zen master. And the Zen master knew all the answers and was giving me answers. I was like, I got more clarity, I got more information. And then something happened in my dream where everything changed and then in the same dream, I was the Zen master talking to a student. And the student would ask me the same questions that I was asking the Zen master. Except for in that dream, because of that shift, I knew all the answers. And I was like, oh, for that, let me show you this. Let me tell you this. I know all the answers. So this is actually the case of being in the case of the world. a person and say, I am separate from you. But you're not. You're like, I'm less powerful, they're more powerful. I'm less knowledgeable, they're more knowledgeable. And that's not that the same awareness in the Zen Master is the same awareness as in you. There is this, you could look at the Zen Master and say, there's an eternal awareness, something magical, so magical, elevated. And that same thing, if they're perfectly enlightened, that same thing is within you. So this eternal awareness is not in one place, it's in all places.

0:08:20
It's true.

0:08:23
There's no self and other. This is what we say, you know, this is what we say in India when we're born in India and have an incarnation there in a past life. Namaste. That enlightenment, we recognize the enlightenment in you and in me. There's a resonance. Koan, ahisha, comes together. So when you look at another person, you have to have a recognition that there's an infinity of awareness in that other person, but it's exactly the same as the infinity of awareness within you. And vice versa. And up and down. And inside out. And left and right. That's the way that it is. So unity needs to be observed in Sangha. So Sangha is a discipline. It's a work. It's a practice. It's also hanging out and having good times together. Sariputra was like, hey Buddha! Sariputra was one of Buddha's, you know, top lieutenants. You know, here's one of his top students. And Sarputra loved Sangha above everything. And he said, Buddha, one of the best things is Sangha. It is friendship on the spiritual path. Buddha said, no, it's not one of the best things, it is all of the best things. So Sangha is a very special thing. So you need to start looking suspiciously at all of your Sangha members, the ones below you, the ones at your level, and the ones above you, and you need to be like, hmm, how is this the best thing? It is the best. Sangha is the best. Sangha is the strongest. And these very enlightened beings, Sariputra and Buddha, were like, Sangha is good. Spiritual friendship is good. My teacher was always like, wow, this is a very tough world, so I'll describe it this way. We're a bunch of zebras, and there's a bunch of lions that want to eat us, so we need to stick together. And then the lions get confused, all they see is black and white, they get confused, they don't know where to go, and they fail at their attack. It's a very martial artist way of looking at things, but that's true. So, Sangha is the best. It's strong. It's a very special jewel. You know, I knew this other guy in a different sangha. And they were very into astrology. The main yoga focus in their school was astrology. You know I'm telling a joke right now. And they were like, they came to this point where they had different viewpoints on the astrological charts. And charts and they're like this means this no this means that and it you know they they had disparate viewpoints and then they got all they were arguing no no no Venus in Scorpio means this just arguing about everything and I said to my friend This is disunity. In a sangha, it's disunity. And he said, yes, that's true. You know, all this trouble, it's tore us all apart. And now, I just feel like I'm in Pisces. I don't know if the Hungarians are on this one, but sorry if that's the case for my translator. Call out to my translator. Hey, shit. Hey, shit is a good translator. So, translate that. You guys can't translate that. Yeah, sorry. Sorry, I got some Hungarians here. They're like, nope, doesn't work. Yeah, so, this is the way of things. That we must come to unity. We can't be separate. Every single person in the Sangha is precious. You know, they're accepted by me, full open heart, way to enlightenment for them. And so, if they have a hard time, if they act unimpeccably, if they're selfish, they're on their way. I mean, they're trying. If they're here, it's because they're trying. They're working on it. And it doesn't come easy, right? You know that yourself. It doesn't come easy. And they might not be as smart, capable, spiritual, or whatever, at whatever level you are, but you have to give them a break. Because you are also not at the level I want you to be at, which is an enlightened level. And I give you a break. So, I give you a big break. I have a lot of compassion for you. When things are very, very difficult, I don't give up. I don't get mad. I don't say, this is garbage, I quit. I don't, that's self.

0:15:22
Don't do that.

0:15:24
Give everybody a break. You know, your peers, the showdowns, ST3s, ST4s who are in charge of your yoga, probably.

0:15:41
They're not perfect. Give them a break.

0:15:43
Be fluid and learn. The most important thing that we can do as a group is like care for each other, work together and forgive each other. Just those three things. If we can do that as a sangha, we can do really great, wonderful things in the world. So, that's the most important thing. You know, sangha is so important. You know, if you want to learn karate outside of a dojo, there's a lot of YouTube videos. But if you have a great teacher and a great school, and if everybody honors the school and tries to be great to the level of the teacher, then it's a great school. It's a powerful school of martial arts and spirituality and any inner art. But honor every single member of the Sangha. I like to think about if you had a hard time ever, if you ever had a hard time in the sangha, in the study, think about that. You're like, whoa, I had a hard time. My teacher yelled at me, or my yoga lead yelled at me, my mentor yelled at me, or I got really angry at another student, I had trouble, if that's the case with you, then that's a case to open your heart. Because everything that I do for you, if I yell at you, I'm aiming at your enlightenment. Come on, wake up, come on, I'm talking to you. And then there's great structures. So your yoga leads, if they give you a hard time, that's great, that's a great structure. So it's okay, don't worry about it. Don't get so upset. These are great things. And if it's a yoga, a yogi working with you, great. Don't get so upset. is a way to learn and grow.

0:18:49
But I have to tell you directly,

0:18:53
if I gave you a hard time, I meant it. I know what I'm doing, and I'm aiming at elevating you, that your enlightenment, because that's your potential. So if I gave you a hard time, I know what I'm doing and I mean it, and it's because you can take it, you can learn. And that happens at every level in yoga. So then you get a yoga lead, and they're working in their structure.

0:19:36
Okay, I think you get it now.

0:19:44
So once we have Sangha, this is the most important thing, besides the other most important thing, which is that we have to have a balance in the world. So, we're in the physical bodies, right? Apparently, that's how we can do this. And unity in the physical means balance in the physical world. So, unity doesn't mean that I'm going to, like, teleport into the wall, right? That's not unity in the physical, right? That's not right. So in the physical world, we have to come into balance with everything. Balance in the physical world is unity. So we have to look at balance, like look at your diet. Do you feel that you have balance? If you do Cool, but come on a lot of you need to have balance You need to stop eating From karma and you need to start eating from Dharma, which is balance You just need to eat what you need to eat and you can't get karmically stuck on, like I need to just chomp on things. There's so much pressure in America. America's terrible with food. There's a sickness in the vibration of food in America. So you have to have mindfulness to be able to come to a place of balance and unity. So I was traveling in Europe and when I'm in Europe, hungry, you guys got me. You do my lacho, my bell peppers and onions and tomatoes, totally good, thank you. But then, like when I get on an airplane or when I'm in Paris or something like that, I have to eat weird food. And I'm going to be going to India. I know we're going to like, we're even going to like, you know, tier of anomalies where they just eat vegetarian, but they're vegetarian is not my vegetarian. My vegetarian is way higher level than their vegetarian. So I just eat vegetables. But so now I have to go to like, in Europe, I have to eat, you know, I'm in Paris, I'm like, oh, I have to eat a baguette and a croissant and les fromages, vitamin F. And then I'm like, oh my goodness, you know, that's what I have to do when I'm there. And then I go, oh, now I have to go to India, which is even worse, because what do they give me? Bunch of carbohydrates. Rice and bread and dosas. They're good, but...

0:22:59
See? I give you guys a hard time about everything.

0:23:03
It's so funny to me. All right, so when we come down to it, we relinquish the self. And once we let go of self, there's unity. But when you keep grabbing onto self, even my jokes get a weird fantasy. Weird fantasy. You have to be mindful.

0:23:44
You know, you guys are Bodons.

0:23:45
When you guys move up to showdown, I'm gonna give you weirder jokes, stranger, more edgy. Guys gotta be strong.

0:23:54
It's kind of true.

0:23:55
It's like I can measure my students' selflessness by how many weird jokes I could tell them. You guys should come to the showdown class. You will, eventually.

0:24:11
It's true.

0:24:13
Yeah. So, in the physical world, you have to have a balance of all the crazy things. The world is a crazy place. It's the craziest place I've ever seen. And here we are. And it's like a good comedy show. It's a good horror film. It's good everything. It's all for trouble. And that's where we're at. But you have to have balance in the world. With everything that happens in this physical world, you have to do certain things. You have to have a strong career, you have to have good exercise, a good diet, and you know, just everything has to be in a powerful, orderly discipline and then you have a balance in this world. You have to exert so much energy to have a balance in this world and that balance brings you into unity. If you don't have a job, a career, try meditating in this world. You're probably very troubled because you don't have enough money to pay rent or bills or food or something like that. And if you're like that, you're underwater in personal power and it's trouble. You can't, you know, you lose personal power and energy and then you want to sit there and meditate and stop thought. It's so much harder. But when you have a balance of your career, a balance of your diet, a balance of your exercise. If you're doing everything right, it is possible to have this unity consciousness. But if you don't work hard, it's not easy. It's trouble.

0:26:21
It's difficult.

0:26:22
So you have to do all the right things. So, yoga's important.

0:26:31
Yoga is strong.

0:26:32
You know, in yoga, we are working with dimensions of spirituality that create something in the physical. And this is an ancient, ancient practice from Atlantis to Egypt. You know, we even still have some of the Egyptian pyramids that are based on this practice. It is creating a design in your mind and making something in the physical. But the designs in your mind of Atlantis and Egypt were spiritual designs. And you know, the pyramids that we see these days, they were designed in the mind. And they're very basic. But in more ancient times, the ancient times of Egypt or Atlantis, there was much, much designs that created much more advanced conclusions of the physical results. So when we work on a yoga, we are developing powers and constructs in other dimensions, very specific dimensions of spirit. It is something that if you put your mind to it, you think it's just, at first you just think it's work. And then there's a lot of heart. There's blood, sweat, and tears that go into it. And then after that physical thing, if you work that hard, if you're that selfless, you can start to see the spirit of what you created. You can start to get to the spirit of what yoga is. And in this school, the structures of yoga are very, very, very strong. And this gets us to kind of the third point of unity, which is the worlds of magic, the worlds of power, the worlds of light. Yoga leads you into the higher states. You have to go through yoga. Unless you can sit in front of me and go into levels of samadhi, show me, demonstrate it, then I'll teach you the next level. But usually you have some hardships in your mind and you can't just automatically go into higher levels of Samadhi, which I can work with because I do work with that. I have advanced and enlightened students. But if you're not there, you got to do the work. Because doing yoga, it brushes off this coarse sense of self and it gets you to a refined, higher connection of light. So you start to do this through the practice of yoga. You get to a higher sense of light, connections with higher enlightened energies of power and luminosity. So yoga brings you into that. I mean we go to the desert or Shodan will give a teaching and empowerment. These things are very very powerful for your spirit. I remember for For a long time, he was teaching power, how to empower yourself through yoga. And he had many students who were very successful. I think he had like 25 of his older students who made, you know, multi-million dollars, some of them hundred million dollar acquisitions. They created software that was successful and sold it. That was their plan. And they were very successful in doing their yoga. So, yoga gives you a power more than yourself, because those, those people were good. But then when they did yoga. The power of yoga, made them great. And we have to look at, you know, our Sangha. So Apati did, you know, fairly well, it's okay, but it was powerful enough, you know, when you make, you know, tens of millions of dollars of an acquisition where everyone has been focusing on that for like 10 years, 20 years maybe. Well then it creates an energy where you say, wow, this is for real. And then that opened the opportunity for the advanced teachings for the Shodons and it was very successful. Now we're getting to a place, you know, with photons where it's possible to become a showdown. So, there's a yoga that this winter solstice. I'm pretty sure you know they're like 9 million right now they're about to flip into 10 million. That gets that cash flow equals energy flow. That means that you have the power and it gives you the light. And that gets the yogis, the Bodhan yogis on that team to the advanced teachings. And we also have two other very, very, very strong yogis that are doing really well and they're they are definitely going to work out and be strong to get even if you're you know all the people on their yoga but even if you're a yogi not on their yoga it's going to there's gonna be so much power for the Boddha that it'll bring to you the advanced teaching. So to so if even if you're not on their yoga, but if you're doing a nice, good happy yoga and you're doing a good job, you have to be a strong yogi, you have to be 100% on your yoga, and then even if some other company succeeds, I'll say, you're ready, and there's enough energy. worlds of power and light, the most important thing to focus on is yoga. It is the strongest, it has the most powerful help besides your own meditation. If you can meditate and go into samadhi, I can work with you. But if you're not there yet, do yoga. Yoga gets you there. The highest pinnacle of unity is the recognition of your eternal mind.

0:34:15
It is enlightenment.

0:34:18
So recognition of unity is liberation. You say, hmm, wait a second. If you, if you recognize your enlightenment, it is an awakening to your mind, knowing eternity, being one with all things, being God's mind, being beyond mind, nirvana, that's enlightenment. So I know that it seems like a big deal, and it is, because it is a big deal. Enlightenment is the biggest deal, but it's also the most natural thing. It is the most natural thing. It just seems like a big deal from the point of view of an ego. A self has a very fixed, limited view. And so when you become liberated, you say, wow, that's amazing. You're happy. Like, wow, I see eternity. And that's what happens at first. That's a big deal. And that's only because the ego is the stupidest person I ever met and it is. So once you get outside of the ego and you see eternity, you say wow, this is enlightenment, this is so great. But take it from me, enlightenment is actually totally totally normal, it is very natural, it is an extremely beautiful, amazing, natural, magical, infinite universe, but it's totally normal and natural. So when the ego thinks about enlightenment it thinks all these weird ideas and when it gets free it goes, wow, this is amazing, and then after a while you go, nah, this is normal and final. And that's actually true right now. You know, enlightenment is simply who you are without any mental modifications. That's where you start to think of things and start having ideas and attachments, you enter into the drama of living of a self. But that's not true. It's kind of like if there's an actor, right? Let's say there's you know, the role of, you know, Macbeth, the Scottish play. And John, the actor, really gets into the role. Actors really get into their role. They have to not only like know the lines, but they have to get beyond their self if they do it right. And they get really into the role. And then they actually feel the things that they say while they're saying it so they become the character. That's what a good actor does. We call it changing the assemblage point. You become the actor, right, because if you just read the words like Beth says, thou hast donest me wrongst, right, whatever something like that, and then if they just say the words, it's just hilarious. But if they mean it, if they have a feeling behind it, if they get into that character, then they shift their assemblage point and they're in that character. That's what a good actor is. So John becomes the character, does six months of Macbeth plays, and it really changes John's awareness of life because John is spending a lot of time being this horrible character who kills people and does terrible things for only their self-interest. What a terrible thing to focus on. That's why I tell people don't be an actor. What you focus on, you become. If you start to put your assemblage point into these different characters, I'm like, you better be like Keanu Reeves or something, man. He played Buddha and Neo. Okay, just do that.

0:38:56
Okay, cool.

0:38:58
But don't play me. So anyway, when you're a character, you're a person, but you're getting this whole load of other stuff that you have to focus on and talk through and express, right? And so enlightenment is really being you and not this whole load of karma, which is a role that's been put on you. It's put down the role and just be you. You know, a lot of people think that enlightenment is adorning yourself with spiritual accolades. You're like, let me get some more stuff more spiritual things. The amulet of intergalactic oneness. That's from Ace Ventura to Detective. He's like, he's like, he got to some Tibetan monastery, and he's like, I have achieved my amulet of intergalactic oneness. And the abbot is like, take mine, as long as you leave,

0:40:10
you can take it and go.

0:40:12
Yeah, so people want to like get something, but enlightenment isn't getting something. It's not adorning the self with better stuff. It's actually letting go of the self. It's not something, enlightenment isn't something that happens to you. It's not something that you experience. It's not something that you attain. I know that's the way we talk about it, but it's not. It's not any of that. Enlightenment is recognition of what is innate to your being. Like, I could point it out right now. Are you aware? Ask yourself, am I aware? Right now. And I guarantee every single one of you is going to say, yeah, I'm aware. You might be aware of a bunch of crap, but you're aware. Now let's get to what your awareness is. Your awareness is that you're aware, that you can never escape awareness, and that awareness is innate and fundamental to being. Have you ever been unaware? A little bit, but actually you were always aware, even when you were a little kid, imagine you're... Recall when you were six years old or something, like remember when you're a little kid and you're having a birthday party or Christmas or something like that? Look at your awareness there. You were a stupid little kid, but your awareness there, you were aware, and your awareness there is equal to your awareness now. Awareness, you know, it doesn't, awareness, the actual awareness of life doesn't change from age to age. It doesn't change from life to death. So awareness is, you know, that ultimate enlightened quality of mind. So then you have to ask, well if that's the case, then why don't I feel enlightened? Why am I not enlightened? If awareness is that innate case of enlightened to be accepted fully and completely. If you are partially aware and you're expecting something, you need something, you want something, you have some attachment to something, these are the mental modifications that you overlay with awareness. But if you accept full awareness, awareness is here right now. Enlightenment is here right now. Awareness is enlightenment. The fundamental nature of consciousness is enlightenment. It's just that we start to say, yeah, but what about this? Yeah, but what about that? And I'm looking at it and getting all caught up in ideas. Those are the mental modifications. It's kind of like watching a movie. So if you come to a movie theater with me and I say, look at the screen. You look at the screen and you go, there's spaceships flying around, lightsabers going back and forth. I'm like, no, look at the screen. You go, well there's Princess Leia and Han Solo. I'm like, no, the screen. Okay, so this is what enlightenment is. It's the screen of where all of life plays out. But the screen is not just some movie screen. Let's pretend it's like this diamond jeweled screen. It is the most valuable thing, because it's all diamonds, and it's gorgeous and beautiful, if you can see it directly. It's intricate, it's like so beautifully cut and placed and everything. But this movie plays on it, and once the movie plays on it, you don't see the jewel, you don't see the precious diamond screen, all you see is a movie and you're watching a movie and you get caught up in the movie and you think the movie's real. So, enlightenment is the recognition of the screen itself. That diamond jewel screen of the greatest value. I mean, imagine if you went to like the IMAX, right? And it was and that screen there, that giant screen is made out of diamonds, right? And then they project on it, you're watching Star Wars or something, right? You can get into the movie, but if you want enlightenment, if you want the spiritual thing, if you want the richness, you're going to be like, I don't care what they're playing on this, whatever movie they're playing, I'm going to bring my mind and my focus to the screen that they're playing it on because that is the greatest value. And when you put your mind into the screen of life, the screen of being, it's not just that it's the most valuable. It's that it goes on forever. It's eternity. It's illumination. It's so bright and beautiful and wonderful and empowering. And then, and then any movie can play upon that screen. You're not just caught up in one movie. Everything can happen. Eternity can happen. Eternity is in that screen. But what seekers do, the trouble, the blender of spiritual seekers is that they look at the screen, they see something happen, and they go, well, if I just remove this one character, then everything will be better. You look at the movie, you go, if I take Darth Vader out of it, then everything's great, you know, and that's shuffling chaos, we call it. That's where the ego is trying to manipulate the illusions. So, it's the ego and the illusion and then the consequences are shuffling chaos and that means more illusion and more ego. And so what we seek to do is just go beyond that. Go beyond the illusion and see the diamond screen, the Asherah screen, beyond the movie, then you're always fine, you're always safe. And you can enjoy the movies. You can watch the Bridges of Madison County and be like, hmm, and still know the diamond behind it. And then you could also go into a horror film and just be like, I'm safe. I know that this is just a movie and I see this beautiful diamond beyond the movie. So what we seek is not to be caught and trapped in the movie, we seek to see that beautiful diamond screen. And when we know that diamond screen and that endless beauty and wealth in that screen, that's the wealth of spirit and eternity, then anything that shows on the screen is okay. Okay, so I'd like to do one final meditation with you. This is the meditation where we're going to focus on awareness itself. I want you to, we'll do a soft focus on the third eye, and I want you to have an awareness of awareness itself. This is me saying, don't focus on the movie, focus on the screen. All right, sit up nice and straight, and let's begin.

0:49:24
♪♪ So, so So, thank you. the the the the the the the the you So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Thank you.

0:51:39
Right, thank you very much. So, yeah, showdown song. teachings and the right attention because I think, you know, Hungarian Shodons, definitely, I don't know if you guys are on the call, but you guys are strong, but American Shodons, you guys are taking a step up to a lot of heart so this is a good thing. Follow your heart. Thank you so much. this is a good thing. Follow your heart. Thank you so much. Be well.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
