0:00:00
All right, hello everyone. Let's begin with meditation. We're going to sit for one song and we'll focus on the third eye. Sit up nice and straight. Let's begin.

0:00:17
So, thank you. Oh, So So, So So So you All right, wonderful.

0:03:34
Yes, so, you know, Buddha Dojo is gone, now we're a Shira, but we have a very strong group of Shodans who have, you know, the full teaching empowerments. And one of the things that I want is for shodons to teach. If you're so inclined. I mean, if you don't want to teach at all, you don't have to. But if you are interested, if you want to share, then I want you to teach. Now, we have had in the past a whole bunch of ST1s and ST2s who have been coming and teaching, and that was good. That gave you a broad sense of different ways of enlightenment or different teaching styles and different powers that the teachers have. Now, I have a lot of showdowns. And what I want you to do is I want you to focus on teaching. I wanna focus on the showdowns in the school teaching. So, we're gonna cancel ST1 and ST2. Remember we had that thing called guest teachers every once in a while, that was nice. But now let's get off of that. So we can inform them, say, you know, we're closing the Buddha Dojo, we don't have this big outreach internet program anymore. So the whole system of Buddha Dojo is ending. And there are no longer going to be guest teachers. So if we have people on the calendar, we can just tell them, well, as of the solstice, we made a change. The Buddha Dojo just wasn't working out, and so we're ending it. So we can let them know that, and then we're moving away from that. And we're having a much stronger focus on developing teachers in-house. So we just don't need, I mean, like, there's enough teachings that we need to work out becoming impeccable in our school. We don't need teachers outside of our school coming in with, you know, whatever enlightened teachings that they have. This is a time where we have to actually get really strong and focused with the Shodons becoming effective, impeccable teachers. So it doesn't require an Agni Kala showing you some crazy, powerful, magical thing in the desert or something like that. It requires you actually standing up as a teacher and saying, oh, okay, I'm gonna learn how to give a transmission by doing it. I'm gonna learn how to do an empowerment by doing it. So that's how you become a teacher, a good teacher, is by actually experiencing teaching. So you have the transmissions and I want you to engage in the Sangha where appropriate and to do the teachings and then that's the way that you figure out how to be a strong teacher. And so you know Turiya and Shiva, I guess I would give them one little thing. They could give a teaching on teaching, because they've been teaching for 20-30 years, something like that, right? So they could give a teaching on what they know about teaching, but I don't want to have them come over and say, oh I have a new mystical, magical thing, or you know, whatever, or insight. You guys have had enough of that. You've seen enough. It's time for you to do. So if they want to talk about how to do teaching, that would be okay. A teaching on teaching. So yeah, this is what I want you guys to do. I want you guys to develop yourselves as teachers. You know when you get the full like empowerments of the lineage as I showed on, even though you have the empowerments, nothing happens unless you actually exercise it. That means that you have to do all the things. So if you say, wow, I have, and there's massive teaching empowerments in our school. And if you wanna teach, then those empowerments come out and then you become, you know, identical to me or identical to Rama because you master that city. And there's a lot of other cities. There's many, many, many, you know, aspects of magic in the structures from these lineage empowerments, the Kala Chakra empowerments. So, but nothing happens if you don't exercise it. So there's a whole bunch of higher dream functions in the advanced dreaming, but if you don't practice, then it doesn't happen. You know, like we were in the Anza Borrego, and I was like, I was like, hmm, I wonder if any of these Shodans or Arhants are gonna start like doing the Weather Siddha. The City of Weather, right, you know, that's one, you know, I like a lot. It's a really strong one, but I was just like, you know, how do you, how do you learn that one? You start paying attention. You start paying attention and the second attention, and then you start to develop the siddhas. These powers start to come through you if you work on them. But if you don't work on them, then nothing happens. It's like you've gotten all this opportunity. You have sitting in front of you all the dimensions, but if you don't work on it, then nothing happens. The thing about me is that I worked on many, I think all of the core dimensions that Rama transmitted to his students. So yeah, enlightenment and stuff like that, but he transmitted the teachings of martial arts, teachings of yoga, teachings of, you know, computer programming, teachings of career success. There's just so many different things, teachings of music, all the main things that Rama did in the lineage, he transmitted it to me when I became a Shodan. And then I worked on it, and I worked on it, I worked on it. And if you work on it you'll see especially in our hunt it actually happens faster. It's like whoa boom I can do these things like automatically because it's sitting there right in front of you. You've got all of the empowerments. So but if you don't use it nothing happens and these are things that you have to develop and master over time. It just doesn't happen right away, but I mean it happens right away, but you can get stronger and stronger and stronger at all of the cities and all of the dimensions in this lineage, but you got to work on it. So those of you who are like you know doing a business yoga, is a very strong place to develop all of the, or many of the very important cities in this lineage. So keep doing it, keep working. But there's all, you know, you can do all sorts of things, you just have to put your mind to it. And mostly your second attention, it doesn't just happen. You know, like you have all the empowerments, but it doesn't just happen. You have to like work on it. And working on it means connecting to it, working in the second attention. So this is what I want you to do. I want you to, you know, grow into being an impeccable shodan, a teacher. I want you to, you know, look at the things that you saw in the study that you thought that were cool and powerful for my teachings and then say, I want to be like that, I want to do Yeah, now my main point for Shodans is impeccability. So the thing that we need to focus on the most is being impeccable, an impeccable Shodan. It's really nice if you're enlightened. Enlightened's great. It's wonderful. Enlightenment is awesome. However, it's more important to be an impeccable shodan. Because we are in a great vehicle, we have a duty to perform impeccably to hold up our end of the deal, to do our part in that vehicle. So, if you're enlightened, that's great. but more important than enlightenment is impeccability in all of the Shodan teachings, all of the school's teachings. It's more important than enlightenment. Enlightenment's nice, it's very helpful, it gives you more insight, more awareness, higher consciousness and power, hour. But enlightenment is something that then would give you greater awareness for impeccability to be of greater service in this wonderful vehicle, in our diamond school. in a big boat and the boat's sinking, right? Well, if you're enlightened and you're like, I'm enlightened and that's all you do, I have high consciousness, then that wouldn't be useful for the vehicle, for the boat. But what you should do is you should get a bucket, it, pull up some water, throw it overboard, pull up some more water, throw it overboard. That means doing the work, doing what is practical and doing it impeccably and doing what it takes to save the whole ship. So in this school, there will definitely be people who have enlightenment, higher levels of enlightenment and everything and they'll share that. But I want to make the baseline understanding that enlightened or not, a Shodan, an advanced student who's got all of the teachings of the school, all the empowerments, has to be impeccable. You know, because our hunts could be very unimpeccable. They could be like, I'm enlightened, but not impeccable. And then I'm like, I don't care if you're enlightened, be impeccable. And if you're an arhant, then you should be impeccable. You should be more impeccable. And if you're such a good, amazing, enlightened art hunt, you should be able to figure out how to do the most amazing things to save the ship. You're like, oh, I invented this pump where I could, I don't have to use a bucket because that's slow, I can do 20 buckets a second with my enlightenment pump. You know, stuff like that. So this is what we need to do. I want to develop Shodans to be the stewards of the Sangha and the leaders of the Sangha. You know, you don't need me to lead. In many ways, I used to lead everything. And then I can now have impeccable students lead all sorts of things, lead yogas. I don't have to lead a yoga. And lead martial arts. Cool, I got like lots of senseis, Manjushree on top of it, right? You know, like there's all sorts of ways of leadership that you guys are coming up to do. And when you do that, you are holding that very powerful enlightened energy that it used to be me that I had to do it. And then in Ramasanda, Rama had to do it. No one else would do it, only Rama could do it. But you guys are lifting up that mantle of enlightenment and saying I'm gonna I'm gonna do that. So this is this is what I'd like you guys to do this is what we have to work on and we're working on you know being powerful and enlightened unto our own And we don't need to have other SC1s and SC2s come into our school and give us teachings. No, you guys are actually probably, I think, better teachers than a lot of them. So I don't want those influences anymore. It was a good experience. We learned wonderful things. We saw them share what they had to share. But we actually have a more effective powerful practice. Remember that one time we were in the desert it was like Turia, Ganga, Agni Kala, I don't remember who else was there but we had like I was like oh here's all my like good ST2 and ST1 friends and they've all given teachings before and then I said, hey let's all get out into the desert and share. And they went crazy. They were like, oh let me show you the most crazy dimension that I could ever imagine. They just did weird things and it was so unbalanced. Except for Toriya. Toriya did good. And then Yana Sensei, he did good. No problem with them. But it was just so havoc and in the gorge. I could not believe they did that. And contrast that with our last trip with you, Shodan's teaching. That last trip was, it was beautiful. It was a beautiful teaching. Everyone was looking at the energy of the students and of the solstice and of the other teachers and we all had a, instead of an individual game showing whatever I want to show, we had a team play and that is so much stronger. It was so clean, so positive, so strong. So I think that you guys are more successful teachers than, you know, like, I mean, not that I recall as not a great teacher, it's just, I wouldn't, you know, don't know what to do with someone like that. You have to work, working together, see what I mean? Working together in a sangha is so much stronger than an individual. I think Kala's an amazingly powerful individual, but when he comes to my sangha, he wrecks havoc, because he just does things in silly ways because he's never been in a successful, powerful school as a teacher. And what I want to do is I want to teach you guys how to be successful, powerful teachers. Now, one of the ways that I really wanted to teach you about teaching was Zen of Work. That's what I want to do. But I don't want you to do what I want to do. I want you to look at the structures and find your own agency and develop yourself. But with Buddha Dojo, I had a very strong Dharma, but it failed. And then with Zen of Work, it got Supreme Court, no, no, Supreme Court didn't do it. It got aborted before the Supreme Court could unabort it.

0:24:55
Yeah, because, you know,

0:24:57
I have an amazing teaching of the Zen of Work. Like, it's a powerful spiritual teaching. There's a dharma. Buddha Dojo had a dharma, unrealized. And Zen of Work has a Dharma, but when I gave you guys this assignment, like two-thirds of you didn't even do it on time. And that means that you don't wanna do it, which is okay, but you don't have to do what I want to do. I want you to do what you want to do. I want you to lead. I'll find some way to express this dharma. Like I think I'll work with a Hungarian Sangha. I think if I ask them, hey, do you guys want to do Zen work? Before they know what it is, they'll say, yeah, we're all in. Americans, you guys were all like, I don't know, it's hard to do. Don't even want to do the one assignment, the one written assignment in the past five years. Don't even want to feel like doing it. I'm like, okay, cool. Then I went, but I understand that. So please do what you wish to do. But I know things. So I wanted to show, I wanted to teach showdowns an amazing thing through Zen of Work, but you guys didn't want to do it. So, I mean American showdowns. So you guys, you guys missed the boat, you know, you know, and then you guys, you know, I gave you the second chance and you did your, your assignments and there was sufficient. It just wasn't there, you know, you don't care. And there's just pushback. And you guys are all stressed out and bothered. I don't know what your problem is, crazy Americans. So I'm going to go and work with the Hungarians on this because I think they just have a much better attitude. They don't give me pushback.

0:27:08
What? You want me to do that?

0:27:09
My God. It doesn't have to be so difficult. You know, it doesn't have to be so stressful or difficult yoga. It's effortless. And then the thing, the most important thing to recognize in, if your enlightened teacher says there's something to work on, is that there's an enlightened teaching in it. But with Buddha Dojo and Zen of Work, American Shodons, American showdowns, not very good. I can go and hang out with the Hungarians and do Zen of work and I bet you it's gonna be super fun and bright and I don't care if it wins or fails. It's that it's an expression of Dharma. So, that was pretty pathetic for a showdown, to get an assignment, a written assignment from your teacher and two-thirds of you don't turn it in.

0:28:17
Wow.

0:28:18
Anyway, but that tells me, I'm not going to argue with you. I want you to do what you want. I want you to really look at the places that you love in the sangha, what you want to focus on and work on. That's what you should do. Okay, so I want to talk about just a little bit of sangha structure. you are shodhans and you can teach in the Sangha like it's possible for you to say oh my gosh I all of a sudden I had a meditation I have a vision I have a teaching for the Sangha and if you do you think does this fit in in the in the big picture and then the teaching article say yeah that's in big picture I'll say oh meditate on that more we don't know how it fits in but it's possible that you say, oh, I have a teaching. And then it's possible to teach if you want to do Shodan teaching or an Arhan teaching or a Osanga teaching. It's possible for any one of you.

0:29:50
So if you want to do that, you can do that.

0:29:52
Shodans can teach, you know, we have a process because we don't need like everybody teaching all at once everything. It has to be very, very, very structured. But if your vision and your dharma and your teaching is strong, and it fits in in the right place, it's possible that you can do teachings at any level in the whole organization. You could be like, no, I have an empowerment I need to do in, you know, in the yoga. I have an empowerment I need to do in martial arts, transmission teaching for the whole sangha. You guys have all of those capabilities. It has to be balanced. That's why we have the teaching org. They can look at things and say, that's a cool thing but we have ten other things happening and there's just, we have to figure out how to fit it all in. But Shodan can teach at every level of So, that's good. And even to dream a teaching, even if it's not going to get scheduled, it's good. This is where you're developing your teaching power, the city of teaching. There's many, many, many powers. And if you have your mind open to it, you start to access that. First time, maybe the council says, no, no, no, no, it's not the right time. It's too much. But if you keep dreaming it and dreaming it, then eventually they'll say it's perfect and it's more powerful and refined than the first time. So this is what we call the regular way. So there's lots of Shodhons who are teaching. They're doing meetups, they're teaching online, they're getting new students. Now the Buddha Dojo is going kaput, but even though that goes away, we're still a Sangha. We're a Shira Buddhism. And that means that you can go out and teach today, tomorrow. You can get 10 new students. You can work with them, bring them through like the Enlightenment Workbook. Just work with them, teach them. you can say you can come into the Ashira Buddhism with Asha. You can say you can come now over here. This is the normal way. And then they can come over and they can come to satsangs where I'm here. They can come to satsangs that are all satsangs that are showed on Todd, they can come to the regular structure of the school. You can bring them in. So just that's the normal way that we've been doing things. Easy and recommended. I recommend that you teach. Share the way. Sharing the way is always a good thing. And then there's teaching at a different level, which is what I call leadership. This is the Abbots of Bodie Woods. This is the, you know, like the sensei's of the Bay Area. It means that you take an area and you say, I will be the leader of it. And then you have a lot of leeway because the Shira has a structure, but Bodhi Woods has way more rules because the conditions in Bodhi Woods are people live together, they have to like clean, like in a shero we don't have a rule, you have to, you know, everyone has to take something to clean. Note when you're in an ashram together, there's certain rules, there's additional rules where everyone has to work together. Look, you do that, you clean that, I'll clean this, and then the whole place is clean.

0:34:48
It's just like that. It's just a simple matter of etiquette. I don't want to call them rules.

0:34:49
I want to call them etiquettes, but they are very important etiquettes. But that's how we have to work together. In Bodie Woods, the abbots are the leaders and they know all the local details details and so they make the rules of etiquette. Ashira has very simple rules of etiquette but then you know Bodhi Woods has many more rules so that everyone can work together but they're also within Ashira. So you know there was someone who was talking about creating a Bodie Woods somewhere outside of Philadelphia somewhere in Pennsylvania. We're like yeah gonna go there meditate do martial arts beat the Amish. So that's a possibility. It's a and I'm talking about a big picture here. Not that you guys have to go rush out and do it, but it's a big picture of this sangha that there will be people who will go to some place, some other place where we have no presence. And they'll say, I'm here in this one city in the world, this one place, and I want to start teaching people. I want to create a school. I want to create a center. I want to create Dharma. And you can do that. You can go to anywhere in the world, any location, and you can create a dojo and as the dojo lead you can look you can say hey in this country it can't be like how everything is in America I can create all these additional rules have all this extra fun wonderful stuff all these things about the culture or the place or whatever I can do it in a whole new way that is the way that I know how to do it. It's a very powerful way if you want to do that. So it's possible for Shodan to go to anywhere in the world and teach. You create your own center, your own space, your own dojo, your own... It's a very powerful structure of teaching. If you want to do that, it's going to happen. It's kind of like judo, right? So there was Professor Kano who started the art, and then Kazumi was one of his really good students, good black belt, and Koizumi was like, yeah I like this, it's good, it's wonderful. He's like, but I kind of want to do my own thing, but I don't want to stray from judo. Master Kano is awesome. So he's like, I'm just gonna go to London and demonstrate judo. So Koizumi goes to London, everyone goes, wow, that guy's cool. Then he created a whole bunch of dojos across Europe. He opened Judo to Europe. So this is a possibility. You've got extremely strong, powerful teachings. You could go to a new place and share it. I remember when I was, I went to India with Nav and we were doing judo, we're trying to sell judo to people over there, to women actually, we went to all these women colleges and girls schools and stuff like that. So, judo for girls. Because the 10th degree black belt of the school was a woman. So, we were like, hey, this is women's judo. And so, we got there. And when I went out to these schools, I think on that trip, I taught 6 or 8,000 women. And the way that you couldn't just show them, let's say, some traditional technique, because it's too traditional. So what I did was I showed them self-defense techniques that were very practical, that you could learn while you watch it. And it was so exciting to them. So exciting. So there could be so many people out there in some place that you can change their life with the teaching of Dharma. I guarantee I gave like six or eight thousand women these super strong easy to do techniques that empowered them, actually spiritually empowered them to go, hey, I don't have to take crap. And if someone does that to me, I'll take out their eye. You know, like things that really give them power. So you can go somewhere and go, I could teach this here and so many people can learn, grow from those teachings.

0:40:45
If you want to.

0:40:46
It's something that a Shodan can do. A Shodan can go to a new location and create their own thing. They could be the abbot. They can create an ashram. They could be a sensei, create a meditation center. So this is a possibility as well. And it's probably going to happen in the future. I'm giving you the big picture of how show dons work in this mandala, in this structure of the school. And then the last one, no it's not the last one, it's the next one. The next one I would call it the Don Juan way. You know how Don Juan had the teacher and the benefactor is really good. It's a really strong structure of enlightenment. So it's also possible, if you have a specialized group, target market, that you're like, I really want to teach this target market, but they're so different, they can't be part of Asherah. So then I want to reach them. You're absolutely welcome to do it. So like let's say that you wanted to do everything that you learned in the school. You're like I'm going to just take all of this and I want to do you know all of these teachings for Chinese speakers, right? That would be cool. Now, the structure of a shura isn't good for Chinese speakers. Because they'd be sitting in a satsang with me speaking English. They'd be all like, what's going on, right? But if you're like, no, no, no, I know, you know, I know Chinese people. I know Chinese language, I want to be able to take these teachings and I want to be able to bring it to them. I can bring it to them in a cultural way that they understand, in a language way that they understand. So then there's a specific market that you understand and you want to bring the teachings to. So in that way, I couldn't be the teacher because I don't know the market, I don't know the language or whatever, right? So I couldn't be the teacher. And everything that we do in Ashera just wouldn't work for them. So that's where you would be the teacher, mostly of the first attention, we can call it mysticism. The second teacher is the benefactor, who is the teacher of the second attention, and that's exactly what I do. and then the two teachers work together and it's hand in hand like I always say mysticism and tantra the mandala it's all hand in hand both go together to be a very powerful wave enlightened elevation so if you have some point if you're like oh yeah I want to teach, let's say, enlightenment, like meditation, enlightenment, and weight loss, right? Ashera, we don't talk about it, but if you wanted to focus on weight loss, you're in America, it's a great place to work on it. It's a great thing, that would be a good business model. You have a large addressable market, and I mean large. Okay, so they're large. And so the thing is, you can go and say, hey, I can take all these teachings and I can, in every teaching, talk about, yes, mindfulness for this and stopping thought for that, but here's how we target it to your pain, the thing that you want to work on. So it's totally possible. I remember when I was working with EJ when he was in Raleigh, North Carolina, he was very inspired by the teachings and he's like, oh, let me teach the people in my network. And he taught them meditation. He taught them a lot of things from the enlightenment workbook. He was teaching them all these wonderful things. Now, these are people who, if they sat in the room with me, they would sit in the room with me once and leave. And they would never establish a meditation practice. They would just not be really interested in the level of energy, mysticism, transmission. They were not interested in that. But EJ was very successful in teaching them and they learned many spiritual things. They got to a meditation mindfulness daily practice, daily practice. And he was working with them for months and then I came and visited. I was amazed. I was like, wow, these are people who would never be interested in listening to me and the energy that I put out. But he was able to take this, be inspired himself, know the people in his area, and be able to address them with this knowledge, with this light, with this power, but in the way that's appropriate for them so that they can elevate. That was amazing. So that's what you guys can do. You know, you can take all the teachings of the school and make it appropriate for a certain group or a certain country, a certain region, a certain people, a certain pain. And if you want to do that, that's a cool thing. And I won't be their teacher. They won't be coming onto all of the Asura Buddhism structures. You'll have to create all the structures. You'll have to modify everything that you've learned and make stuff, develop that for them, but you can do that. But I can also be their benefactor, which means you tell me, this is what I'm doing, and I'd like you to be their benefactor, because if you wanna cut to cut out enlightenment, you have to really ask yourself where your ego is at. Because in the second attention, I'm very, very, very supportive and helpful to students. So if you do the mystic part, they don't even need to know my name, but I can be a benefactor, and I can do really, really, really powerful things for your students. So consider that. Now, the third way is, what would I call it, off the reservation. So the third way that's possible for teaching enlightenment is that you do your own thing, which I'm hoping to as well. Like if you say, I really like what I learned here, but I have some inspiration, I own something that I want to do. That's totally fine too. There's also, you know, in the structure of the school, there's a structure for you to go out and do anything that you want. It's totally possible and there's not a problem with it. It's just people will find, certain people will find that that's what they need to do, that's what they want to do. Some people find that they're totally happy in the first case, just the regular structure that it's always been. But if you say, I want to go and do my own thing, like for example, Ra. So Ra is, he's like and I want to put them together and do my own thing and have like my own expression of enlightenment and teach that and I'm totally for that I think that's awesome like if you know if that's what you feel that's great you have you have awareness about this and you learned a lot here and you could put it together, and then you could be a whole new unique expression of spirituality. That's fantastic.

0:50:35
So that's fine.

0:50:36
The thing about that is that in that case, I can't even be a benefactor. I won't, like I have a structure. So that means that you're doing your own thing. I mean, you're still my student, so there's still all of that connection and all that enlightenment from this lineage that comes through you, but it's like you're doing your own thing. And a lot of people need to just do their own thing. It's totally okay to do your own thing. And if you want to do that, that's fine. I think that what, you know, like Ra is working on is amazing. I think it's very special. I think it's unique. So I really want him to experience that and thrive and then see where it goes. It's very bold bold to like stand up and say, I'm gonna, you know, I learned this and I learned that and I'm going to put it together and I have my own new expression. Anyone who wants to do that, I totally fully support it. I mean, that's what Leela, I was talking to Leela since like, since her liberation, and she was like, oh, sorry. Adipara Shakti. She said, all right, wow, I'm really, really happy with my liberation. And then she's like, I really want to teach. And she studied this Kriya Yoga for years before meeting me. And she said, I want to somehow incorporate that. I kind of want to do my own thing. And I was always like, great, do it. I was always advising her on how to do it. I was like, go for it. So it's the same thing. Anyone who like really has this this vision that you want to, you know, like go and do all sorts of new teachings, it's totally supported within the structure of the school. It's, you know, there's different different structures, but this is the structure you can see these in tankas they show these in in tankas sometimes there's a buddha in the middle and then real close to him there's some arhants with some students and then they might show this other teacher across the river or across the rainbow bridge or something and and teaching and then they have students there. So there's definitely, you know, different levels. It all fits within the mandala for sure, but there's still, there's still that connection. When you have that connection with your teacher, it is, it is an aid where it shows up in the mandala. But if you say, nope, nope, cutting out the teacher, then you're outside of the mandala, then you don't have that whole other part of the teacher. You have your own mandala, but it's much more limited than when you have the great, you know, connection to the Buddha and the Buddha's Buddha, the Buddha's Buddha's Buddha kind of stuff. I got a number of emails from Shodans that were very concerned about Adipera Shakti and also in Hungary, you know, she was teaching in Hungary a lot. And so they were like, oh my gosh, what's going on? So I just wanted to mention to all of you that it's not something to worry about. As I said last night, if for any reason you don't want to be here, there's the door. Like, you don't have to be here. If you have any idea that there's something better to do, you can do whatever you want to do. I don't want to like try to convince showdowns to stay. Actually, I really, really, really, you guys probably noticed, I really focus on trying to keep intermediate students. I really focus on trying to get them to the showdown level. But once you're showed on, you know, it's time to, you know, be very spiritually mature. Like this is time to be sure about your impeccability, about your enlightenment, about your participation.

0:55:14
So it's the time for you to say,

0:55:16
no, this is what I do with my life. This is not a karate school

0:55:20
where you get your karate black belt

0:55:22
and go, oh, got a karate black belt and now I'm bored and I quit. Because you probably get beat up in a street fight if you get a black belt. But this is a school of mastery. It's not just getting your black belt. It's not just getting your first liberation. It is a school that goes all the way. And you know, what is it? Sahaja, right? Yeah, Sahaja. She's the one who was like, you have your first liberation but then there's this process of 20 years to get to this full liberation. And I was like, huh? But it was actually kind of true. I mean, it took me that long. Tomorrow is my special day. July 7th, 2020 was my last big liberation moment, which the New York Yogi's, they call it full, full enlightenment. And so tomorrow is my, my special day of that condition. So, this is not something that we just do a little bit. And if you do it a little bit and you want to leave, then fine. I'm here for people who want mastery. Mastery takes refinement, impeccability, time, following the Dharma, doing the right things, just continuing. genuine. So some of you were concerned you know about Shiva Shakti. I'm sorry, what am I doing? There's a Shakti in there right? All these names change so much you guys, it's hard for me to keep up. I'm all like, I really wish they kept Google Glass. Because if I had Google Glass I could look at everybody and be all, oh yeah, you're that, oh wait, you changed your name from that to that to that. And your birthday is, oh it's today, happy birthday. I need Parashakti. So, she's doing what she wants to do. She feels very positive about you, everybody, the Sangha. She feels positive about me. She just wants to do what she wants to do. It's absolutely not the teachings of this school. Buddha never said, leave your Sangha is so important. But whatever her seeing is for her Dharma, I mean, she's liberated. And if that's what she sees and that's what she wants to do, I'm happy for her. I support that. I want her to do whatever she wants to do. I want you to do whatever you want to do. So, there should be no bad feeling. You should have this feeling like, oh, that's what you want to do? Great. Enjoy. Now, I'm actually really proud of her. I think she's done so very well. You know, when I first met her, she was in one of the most disempowering professions. And she eventually learned computer programming and is a super strong career point, right? That's amazing. That transformation alone is worth everything in the world. And, you know, she got a black belt in karate, jujitsu, right? She did all that. She became a black belt in yoga, yoga rank, black belt. She was the first liberated student in my school. And it was very, very, very cool that she was able to be an example to you even early on and once you got the teachings of the Kala Chakra. So this is a really good thing she's done really well and then she goes on to like do wonderful teachings for all of you and then she started doing lots and lots of teachings for the Hungarian Sangha. So she's just done an exceptional job. She's very impeccable. She led two power trips not too long ago in Europe for the Hungarians. And the Hungarians showed me this slideshow of their trips, and I could just tell by the power and the light and everyone's auras that it was a very, very, very high trip and she was super blessed out she was so happy so bright so powerful so much light and lightened energy coming from her to do this power trip so she was she's great the other thing she she did for the past like six months is she did office hours for the Hungarians. So I didn't have to do it. And I'm like, wow, that was really nice. So I used to have to spend hours every trip meeting with people who need questions answered, but she just took that over. And then I never had to spend those hours. It's very tiring for me. And she was able to do that. So she did a really, really impeccable job. It's just that She just didn't want to be in the sangha when it came when it came down to it She didn't want to be in the sangha. She she loved the sangha She wants to do what she wants to do in the sangha But when it comes down to no, there's structures. She doesn't want to Deal with the structures. So when I said there's tuition she said oh, no, I don't want to pay tuition. And I'm like, well, then that's it. You know, that is always Rama's bottom line. He's like, I have a tuition because that is what tells me you want to be engaged. And she's like, I don't want to pay tuition. And I'm not her teacher anymore. And I'm like, oh, okay, fine. I don't know what that means, but great. I mean, if you leave, I'm not your teacher for sure. But I'm like, oh, huh, that's funny, because in everything that she does in all of her teachings, she uses exactly the structures of this school. It'd be like, if she got attacked on the street and she was really put to it, she would do punches and kicks and blocks like she learned in getting a black belt from me, right?

1:03:05
And then she'd be all like,

1:03:05
oh yeah, but you're not my sensei. Like, oh, okay. You learned everything, but now I'm not your teacher, I'm not your sensei. I don't even know what that means, but that's fine if that's your, you don't want to pay tuition, you can leave. That's the way I look at it. So, you know, that's just it. You know, she said, I don't want to pay tuition, and you know, you're not my sensei. And I'm like, okay. And I know it seems kind of funny, but just imagine that in a martial arts school. You get a black belt, you're training for a year, and you're in a good black belt, and you're also training people in the dojo. And then you go to the sensei and go, I'm not gonna pay the monthly tuition anymore. And you're not even my sensei, but I'm gonna stay in the dojo and teach your students. It's just, it's that, it's nothing personal. It's just that, that doesn't work. It's just, it's just dysfunctional. I mean we can say it's not the proper etiquette, it just doesn't work. So, you know, that's what, that's where she's at, that's what she wants to do. And she wants to do some other great, wonderful things. So then that's what she should do. Because if you say, you're not my sensei, I'm not going to pay tuition, I'm going to teach you to your dojo, it doesn't make any sense. Now, one of the things I said to her, I said, okay, totally fine, I totally support you. We're both very positive towards each other. I just said, you know, for like two or three years, just no connection to my sangha anymore don't talk to people don't communicate and this was really tough for some of you some of you emailed me about that and said why i feel like i'm a really good friend of hers or she's a really good spiritual support for me and for the hungarian sangha she was a really strong spiritual support and teacher So it's kind of confusing that all of a sudden she's just, you know, is leaving. And she doesn't have any bad feelings, you guys. It's just, it doesn't work for her. So don't contact her. So she told me, she pledged to me that she won't talk to my students. And I also don't want you guys trying to talk to her. And here's the reason why. Because, remember how I was talking about how we're a functional sangha? Like we're a true sangha? That's why all the ST1s and ST2s want to teach us. Because a little person by themselves, nothing. Or it's little. But if you go to a functional sangha it's the powerful thing, the powerful connection. Then they go, wow, our energy like lifts them up and makes their dharma bigger. That's why ST1s and ST2s always want to teach. No ST1 or ST2 ever asked me to teach their students. Never. They just always want to teach my students. I'm all like, okay. Because yeah, we're a functional of it, if you talk to Adipera Shakti, when you talk to her you will start sharing light with her because she's built in the same structure as us. So you'll start to share light but that wouldn't be good etiquette because she's quitting this place to go do something different. So if you start sharing light it's like she quit but she's not quitting and then her she will immediately respond back because she has this beautiful heart and all she wants to do is share enlightenment and teach. So she'll start doing transmissions and give insight and she'll interact with that same energy. So she says I'm going to quit but then if you talk to her then you don't let her quit and she won't quit because she has such a big heart she'll just respond immediately. So that is uh it's not proper. If someone quits the school make it a clean cut, close the door because then they get to go on and do what they want to do. You know, if we have a clean door closed with her, she'll go and find all sorts of new amazing things. The thing that she's leaving the school to go and figure out, she can go and actually figure it out. She can go and learn it. Maybe she'll learn that it sucks out there and it's much better to be in a school, and it's better to have the right etiquette and work with the school properly. And then she'll come back, and we'll be like, hey! Or maybe she'll go out there and she'll find all sorts of interesting teachings, and that's what she wants to do. And then she'll do that, and that's the experience she wants to have. That's what she was looking for. That's why she left. So let her do her thing. You know, like, don't like grab onto her

1:09:01
and go, ah, ah, ah, ah,

1:09:02
or remind her of the old days. It's like if someone, you know, gets out of university and then they like move downtown and they get a job and then, you know, they're supposed to do some big business job, right? But then after work, they go back to university and they go hanging out with their old friends, doing what the kids in the university do. That's not proper, right? They have to like say, because they need to be spending their time and attention in the business world, making business connections, doing all the businessy stuff after work, right? Not going back to the education that they were in before. So then they're just hanging out with their old college friends and in college mind, university learning students. So we want to work on the next thing. OK, so I just saw that it is time. I just wanted to spend an hour or so with you. However, tomorrow I'm going to have another satsang, same time. give a final teaching on the Mahamandala. So yesterday and today, the very important things to understand about a shodan, you know, a shodan in our school. What a shodan is, where they are, very powerful opportunities for a shodan. This is just something you guys really need to know. That's why I keep repeating things. I have to keep repeating things because sometimes you guys don't remember it and then you guys forget and do things wrong. But this is the things that we're going to be working on as shodans. Tomorrow I have a very very important teaching for shodans on the Maha Mandala, how to understand it as a Shodan. So tomorrow, same time, it'll be, you know, another another hour, a little Shodan. So tomorrow, same time, it'll be, you know, another another hour, a little meditation, and then talking about the Maha Mandala. But thank you. Bye.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
