0:00:00
All right, so this Zenith work is a new tower to build. Do you guys know that we've been building towers? Now I'm just all, here's a new one. It's not really a different tower. It's kind of the same. It's just in a different direction. It's in a very, our intent is very compassionate, right? We want to make this tower available to more people. So it's kind of following the Buddha dojo. We want to make it available to more people. So we want to make it accessible and successful. Now, what we're going to do is, first of all, one of the best teachings of the wrathful teachings is you get a writing assignment and then all shodons and bodons get to write up this wonderful assignment of what is a teaching of a Karma Yogi in this school that can help other people? People in this school and people outside of this school. Real world. meditate on, ponder on, and to create. By the Equinox. It's not that, I mean like, it would take me like 15 minutes. What's wrong with the world? People are stupid. People are stupid and they should be smart. Wait! I'm like, Ashna, I already covered that one. Anyway, so yeah, we want to actually bring our teachings that have really, what are the things that really benefited you, that advanced your career and also helped you to deal with hardships? Like, we really want to examine our own experiences, and we need to think about also what's happening right now, because ever since 2020, March, right, the pandemic has changed the face of the world. So how have you coped with that? How have businesses coped with that? And how can we, as job yogis, business yogis, karma yogis, who are really connected to really powerful things that create balance, success, and awareness. How can we share that with people?

0:02:58
This is your tower to build.

0:03:00
I mean, that buddy was a big tower. Every yoga is a big tower. And now I'm all like, well, this tower. And even if you've got another tower, here's another tower.

0:03:17
Do both.

0:03:17
See, Marco was just all, don't do that one, that one was wrong.

0:03:21
This one.

0:03:22
And I'm all, do all the fucking towers. Like, do it there, do it there, do it there, do it there. I mean, I don't wanna be too pushy. Just do every freaking tower. Only two towers still, just one.

0:03:48
Can I see you get the joke?

0:03:51
Okay.

0:03:52
jump up because I was like, this is only going to be showdowns, because they're fully empowered to do this. But Bodons, we're going to open up the door of Zen, which is over there. And then we put a window there. Otherwise that door would be a window. And we said, I'm like, this is something that is available to all of us. Showdons, in our haunts, I would expect impeccability. Bodons, I'm interested in what you want to share. You know, you know, white belts sometimes have the most beautiful insects. Beginner's mind and stuff like that. So, let's bring our best to this. And our intent comes from compassion. Because we are, you know, dealing with our yoga for ourselves, and we've had years of this is what it's gotten for us. It's gotten something. Maybe it's not everything, but if it's gotten something, that means you're a strong yogi. You're a yogi going up. And that's the right direction. If you're going up, that's good. And if we can create that for other people, because so many people live their whole lives stuck. They don't go up.

0:05:28
All of you go up.

0:05:29
You go up in your job, in your rate, in your personal power, personal happiness, personal enlightenment, and all that stuff. This is what we do here, and it becomes more and more and more. You know, I remember when the first few people got their first computer programming contracts, then everybody did. And now we're at a... and you guys have seen it played out many times, many ways. And now we're in a place where people are becoming enlightened. And so then many more do. It's just so strong. It's a very strong thing and it's happening. So can we do that? I mean, so it's happening in here. There's a lot of energy, a lot of good things happening here. Good career paths. I don't see career paths going down, see them going up with the pandemic and everything. And can we do this and enlightenment in here is not going down, it's going up. Can we can we bring our best to the world? So Buddha Dojo was supposed to do that, but Buddha Dojo died, but it's still alive. It's just smaller. And now we're like, all our yogas are great, but I'm like, there's one yoga I want for everybody. It's just, you know, it doesn't have to take that long. It's not about time. It's about honest reflection and care and compassion to bring out what can I tell the world. This is a really beautiful video recording of Rama wearing a beautiful tuxedo and saying, what would I tell the world about enlightenment? And he said, chill out. This is, it's a very Rama teaching. It's like, he's like, my message for the world? Chill out. And I agree with that. But I would say, let's chill out in the right way. So, I won't say all three of them, but I'll say one. No, I won't. Okay, that one's season two. Yeah, but, um, so we're not, we're not, um, selling, um, Zen of Work. We're not marketing it. Not yet. I just want to see if we can do this exercise where we can get positive, powerful content of teachings. Now, the first thing is, I want you to write it out. I want you to write out a teaching. Now I have a very succinct structure, which is, what's the topic? Today I'd like to talk about this.

0:08:58
And then a definition.

0:09:00
What is it? This is ABC. Definition two. How does it solve a problem? This helps you this way.

0:09:16
ABC.

0:09:17
way ABC and then a recapitulation which is so then this is a really good thing for you. You know that I do that all the time? Yeah I mean I didn't even know that until I was talking to Parvati. Parvati is like hey how do I make a better teaching and I go oh boom boom boom I'd So, boom, boom, boom. I'd like to talk to you about the Zen of Work. Zen of Work is how to do your job better, how to do your career better, how to build a better business while you're spiritual and also, you know, balanced and successful. My first statement. And then I go, and Zen of Work is dealing with trouble, obstacles and problems, and business and bosses and mean people. How you can deal with it in a balanced way. And then I have the third statement. I do this, I've noticed that I do this, like, it wasn't until I was talking to Parvati, but I think if you look back at all my teachings, I always do this. Then I say, let me recap it for you. Zen of work is, what did I say? It's a really good thing that makes you really happy and spiritual and also blessed, right? So I say, what is it? How does it solve problems? And a recap on it. that in almost every satsang. I didn't notice it, it's just been very natural. But it's a way, you can't just say one thing. You have to repeat things three times, otherwise, three times in three ways, otherwise people don't understand it. If you say, Enlightenment! Most people don't get it. You have to say, enlightenment this way, enlightenment that way. You know that's my job, I say it in a thousand different ways. But to break up a subject, say it and bring it up, define it, tell about the benefits of it, and then recapitulate, bring it back together. Isn't that crazy? But if you do that, people will understand what you're talking about, how you're trying to solve it, and where it's points that describe that problem and show resolution. So you're like, you know what, when you've got sciatica, you've got to take some of these pills, or just meditate until you're dead. I don't know. It's like, you have to say, for this problem, here's a solution. For this problem, do this, this, and this. That shows you the solution, which is the second statement. Yeah, here's the problem.

0:12:31
Here's how this helps.

0:12:33
I mean, it's really important for you to be able to communicate how to solve a problem. And a lot of people will spend hours with an individual and try to work through things and that's a really powerful way of figuring things out. But we have, we're going to be on the internet, it has to be like 15 minutes. I look at the time when I go back and I was all, my goal was 15 minutes. I just talked forever. So my goal is off. I want you guys to get on point. I have to work on it too. I'm like, oh, you want to know what karma is? I'll talk for four years. I'll talk forever.

0:13:30
Karma is this.

0:13:31
I'm like, oh, you want to know what karma is?

0:13:32
I'll talk for four years.

0:13:33
I'll talk forever. I'm like, oh, you want to know what karma is?

0:13:35
I'll talk for four years.

0:13:36
I'll talk forever.

0:13:37
I'm like, oh, you want to know what karma is? I'll talk for four years.

0:13:39
I'll talk forever. Karma is this and that and this and that. And then if you follow me, we'll just keep going. But I can go beyond karma. Yeah. So we need to get very focused. So three things. I want you to have three points, maybe two, but I want one point to be business, and one point to be spiritual. You're like, hey, let me tell you, I'm teaching about this subject, and guess what? Buddha said this about it. And then, um, and so ultimately enlightenment. Right? But I really want you to be able to say, here's a teaching of Buddhism. I teach a lot of stories of Buddhism, but remember some of my stories, or find a story. They're online, that's where I usually find them. I mean, I've read all these Buddhist books, but now I find them online way more readily. But I read at least three Buddhist things a day, and at least three jokes a day. At least. And it's been for years, and it's added to my repertoire. Because, I mean, that's where I get these references that are powerful, that mean something. It's like, whoa, I read that study about Dao Kam, and I'm like, phew, that's super strong. And then I was like, oh yeah, like in the past month I was like, Buddha first became enlightened, walked down a street, ran into a guy and said, are you a god? He's like, no, I'm awake. And then that guy's like, I don't know what the fuck that means. And he walked off. And then Buddha went over and sat down and meditated some more, and then he met these two merchants who became his first disciples. And that story is so much smaller than the first guy who said, the fuck are you? Okay, anyway, so, you know, like, it's very simple. I've done this for many years, like for 10, 12 years. Just a couple jokes a day, or a couple stories a day. Like, what did Buddha say? And I've read a lot of Buddha books, but it's easier on the internet. So, everything that Buddha said in his teachings of books that we'll stack up to here is somewhere on the internet. And then if you're like, what did Buddha say about monkeys? Here's how you guys are a bunch of monkeys. I don't know. There probably will be something. So I want you guys to discover that in your way. But our intent at this time, we're going to build a new tower over there. Right? This is a new tower. And we've been building these towers. I mean, Appaddy built a successful tower. But now we're like, that tower, you know, that's where Marbet comes in. That tower's not big enough. We need another bigger tower, a different tower. A tower that reaches not that height, but a different height, starts on a different level. You know, something like that. Whatever, we're doing something new. And it is, you know, this is part of the teachings of RAP, which is that we gotta do something new. We're not marketing it, we're not selling it. We're just trying to get our content right. And if our content's right, then we can say, oh, actually this works. Or we say, you know what? It needs to be revised. So Rama had this thing called the last incarnation. It's a book. And it was a very important, powerful book for him. And he, what he did was he crowdsourced to students to write stories of their experiences. And then he said, the vibe is not right, rewrite the story. And he gave them like ideas of how to clear, clarify things. So these were beautiful recapitulations that went through revisions, maybe a dozen revisions. And then he created this book and he said that that book was as strong as the I Ching and the Bharata Thadal are super strong. And for people, especially in our lineage, that works for us humans and some of us C2s, but we can create something that is super strong. That really helps people. It's a recapitulation of our experience.

0:19:13
And that's what I want you guys to do.

0:19:17
I want you to write this down. And then, after these three points that have experiences, like where you do a little bit of, you know, like I was telling you a story of Dow Chemical, I came up with that like two weeks ago. I was like, oh, wow, a new study of these employees. And then I was like, and it fed into, well, I should talk about that. I could have talked about Medtronic, which I talked about in the job yoga book, but that's a little bit older. And there's things that are happening now. I found it online, because I just am open to that. So look out there, see what's happening now. And I'd like it if you don't just say, well, there was a study on mindfulness. I would like you to find the pains of employees today. What are the pains of employees today? There's so many. There's knowledge workers working from home who've got families. What are their top six pains? Choose one and give a teaching for 15 minutes on that solution. Because if you do that and someone else does that, we can hit all of them. Be very focused.

0:20:51
Yeah.

0:20:52
It's something... we want a broad and detailed swap. I was very general today, but there has to be a general teaching. But I want all of you to be specific. People who work from home have problem, problem, problem, problem, problem, problem. You can find that on the internet. You say, I'm going to deal with one of those problems and I'm going to teach what the Dharma is. If 50 Shodhans do that, if 100 Shodhans and Bodhans do that, we can understand all the things that are going on like listen to the news look what's going on and what are the problems of people today and it's like how does this match these ancient teachings of right livelihood, of job yoga, and how can I express it to people today? If we can do that, we can be a big asset. We can be a powerful help for the world. It's a powerful help. This world has to work. The people who make the economy and the most money and drive things up so everyone else gets more, that makes more McDonald's. It's the people who make money and you know we're not shookled down, we're enlightened up. If we can enlighten McDonald's and fucking Walmart and everything. I mean, no, no, seriously, enlightened in corporations is my vision. If you enlighten corporations, there's more balance. I want to make money to be the biggest, best Jeff Bezos of the universe, then that guy's a god. But an enlightened Jeff Bezos, if we can enlighten these great beings, they'll be strong, they'll make money, but they will, they'll do better, they'll do more. And that's what we have. Enlightenment. We don't have to be these egomaniacs that make billions of dollars. And if we did, we would enlighteningly bring other people up. And I know that they're trying to do that too, but you can't do that when you have a big obstacle. It's just difficult. It happens with spiritual teachers too, like Ram Dass and many spiritual teachers.

0:24:23
They're like, oh, you guys don't like me?

0:24:25
Well, I must be right. So blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Anyway, so I want all of you to write a teaching. Not a teaching that's just basic. Oh, enlightenment in business. And I gave an introduction teaching, but I can go detail. I want you to find what in your experience is difficult that you need to work on, that you have some insight for, or you've succeeded in. What have you done as a yogi in a school of enlightenment where you can help somebody else? You might be sitting at a bus stop and you say, you know what? You're suffering from this. So did I. And now I'm learning. And let me tell you what I learned. And you help the person, the other person wearing a mask, sitting six feet apart, both vaccinated and boosted, and in separate universes. Yeah, but you know, it's like, what would you tell that other person who's going through something that you worked through, through your meditation, mindfulness, developing your personal power through yoga to get you to another place and you can see another person who has the same karma, they're just, they haven't done the work yet. How can you help that person? Because you can. You can help them in a big way. So this is what we want to share. I mean, this is what I shared with all of you. All of my students, I said, hey, guess what, guys? Come in and you're all jumbled up in your situations. In your situations. And I said, no, here's what we do. And Mandala was there, Sonanda was there, and we built a school and a structure that has created so much success. Everyone. And me too. I was given an enlightened energy of success that I had to surf that wave. You've been helped by a wave of success, as I have as well, and I want you to be And you should be.

0:27:36
And you can be.

0:27:37
And you are. So this is what Zenithwork is. It's a new wave. 1982. It's a new wave. from our own experience. And all these things that we work on, we're going to see what we think about it, and we're going to Kaizen it, we're going to increase it, we're going to learn about it, and then we might create a product out of it. But product and the marketing and everything, we're not even worrying about that right now. I just want to say, new tower. If that tower is good, we can make it a hotel. We're gonna see if it's gonna be a hotel. But right now, gotta make that tower. But right now, gotta make that tower. Thank you guys so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
