0:00:00
Hello everyone. Welcome to this hot song. We're going to begin with meditation. We're going to focus on the heart for one song. So sit up nice and straight and let's begin.

0:00:16
So, So So So So So the the the the so so so All right. So I have to let you know that I'm going to be coughing a little bit today and clearing because the air quality here on the big island of Hawaii is not so good, you know, because it's, you know, there's a volcano and it has like stuff coming out and it's gotten to me. So I'll be, you know, coughing a little bit and I apologize for that. Just wanted to let you know. Yeah, we've been having like, I don't know, dozens of earthquakes every day.

0:02:11
So we're living on a volcano. Wonderful. I mean, there's like, you know, energy, it's magical, it's powerful, beautiful. But then you get a... and sometimes lava. Run! Okay. So, today I'd like to talk about enlightened Enlightened Conduct. This is a teaching from a really great Zen master, Dojin Zenji of Kyoto. And the Zen teaching is called Zenko. And it means, how to conduct yourself in an enlightened way. Zenko is, it's really a dharmic etiquette. It's a way of dealing with people, situations, with care, and with what we call the Buddhadharma, the enlightened truth. Zenko is really a spiritual manner towards everything. A spiritual manner towards life. Gojjan Zenji, when he taught it, was especially talking about how to, you know, how the monks should be, how the Sangha should be towards each other, and also how the Sangha should be towards the outside world. It's an elevated behavior that is a discipline, towards how you deal with each other and how you deal with everything. He also said it's not just people that you're dealing with, you're also dealing with like your cup of tea, you know, like it's it so you're just, I'm gonna drink a cup of tea. You like, you have a very delicate attention to everything that you do. So Zenpo is your enlightened conduct. You don't just go stomping around, you walk quietly. Now, when you first hear of enlightened conduct, you get these ideas of spiritual people doing things in a certain way. And the first thing that Dajin Zenji talks about is what is not enlightened conduct. Someone can act nice and not have truth. They can act nice and be a jerk. And so, Dojin Zenji is like, no, no, it's not just acting nice. In fact, acting nice could be the opposite of the Dharma. And so sometimes, you know, spiritual teachers, especially, you know, these radical Zen masters like Dojin Zenji or Bodhidharma, would do things that other people would think is very

0:07:49
strange.

0:07:50
But they had Dharma. So Dojin Zenji would say, it's not talking nice. Sometimes a teacher will yell at you, right? So we get this idea that a enlightened teacher

0:08:09
is just gonna sit there and go,

0:08:10
oh, that ain't good, everything's nice. They say just the most pleasant things,

0:08:16
but that might not be the case.

0:08:18
So there was a student who goes to his Zen master and says, Zen master, I did a good job today. I went and I corrected, you know, Monk Joe and Monk Tom. And then Zen Master says, you're very gifted. And he goes, thanks. And then he goes, you're very gifted.

0:08:52
Thanks.

0:08:53
And then he says, oh, and you know what else I did? I meditated for three hours. And then Zendasha goes, you're very gifted. Then the monk says, do you have any more insight about that? Because you're just saying I'm gifted. And he's like, I do. It's a teaching that I learned from my own, you know, enlightened master. It is, and you should really reflect on this, it is how to say you're very gifted instead of saying you're a jerk.

0:09:34
So that was his way of teaching.

0:09:36
And he's all, oh, jerk!

0:09:41
That was nice.

0:09:42
Well, that's polite. You should see me, or my teacher. It was a different time back then. And we also have these ideas, Dwejins' Energy says that an enlightened person should be all peaceful. And this is a very kind of recent phenomenon because a long time ago we used to be scared of Zen masters. You're like, oh my gosh, they called them tigers. And we would be like, oh my God, you don't go to that person unless you're ready for like something really intense to happen in your life. So most people would try to stay away from them. But now we're like, oh, Zen's all peaceful. And I always like to point out Shaolin, like the Shaolin Kung Fu. These Buddhist monks, the first Zen monks with the founder of Zen Bodhidharma, they start, what it was then? Zen was fighting. But now we think Zen's all like, oh, it's all peaceful. Zen was, you know what, there's people who are going to come and like rob our, you know, take our food from our ashram, our monastery. And so guess what we're going to do? We're going to fight them. That was Buddhism. It's radical. And everyone else is like, oh my gosh, that's terrible Buddhism. And now it's like Shaolin's fine. So, no, but it was wrathful, intense, and yet it's powerful. We do martial arts. We do martial arts because there's a power in it. There's a refinement in it. Being able to deal with the difficulties of the world with control and focus. You know, Bodhidharma taught the Shaolin monks excellence in martial arts is excellence in enlightened awareness. It was their yoga. So I was at this dojo, and there was this fifth-degree black belt, and he was about to break, I think it was five or six boards, and he was about to punch, just break through these boards. This guy was holding it, and the guy who was holding it just watched his focus, and he was like, wow. It's like, your focus is so perfect, it's like you're meditating. There's like no mind, nothing else, you're totally putting all your energy, focus, and concentration on this one point. It's like, it's just. Amazing, that's like meditation, it's like a spiritual act. And then the fifth degree black belt was like, yeah, and I fucking hate boards.

0:12:36
See.

0:12:37
F-bomb, you know, that's that's what the teachers can do sometimes. And then, we also think that enlightened conduct would be that some Zen monk should just sit around drinking tea and meditating. Is that what they do? Just hang out in the monastery. I don't know, maybe they read books, do sutras, stuff like that. And they do, a lot of them do, but it doesn't have to be. So in Japan, there was this monk, Kazuma, who was in a monastery that needed some help, like they needed more funding, you know, for maintenance and stuff. And so the monk, like, got a computer and coded the, like, you know, crowdsourcing funding website. It's called Campfire. And it became the biggest thing in Japan. I mean, so it ended up going IPO for like two billion dollars evaluation. So this monk was like, oh hey, we need something. Hey, other people could use it too. We made a product. And so, you know, monks do funny things. There's a whole bunch of things that monks do. And it's also spiritual. And this is what we do, right? We work on our career as a spiritual practice. It's not separate. So this monk, Kusuma, wasn't separate. It was right livelihood. I mean, while he's coding and stuff, it's probably like super strong focus, obviously a lot of personal power, and developed something that helped his spiritual community, his sangha, his monastery, and then offered it to many other people that anyone who needs to get funding can use. It's great. And so we also use our practice of right livelihood, job yoga, we have a very strong focus on developing ourselves and our spirit in that practice.

0:15:21
So, you know, I'm gonna end on my favorite one.

0:15:26
Buddhist monks must be vegans. I mean, right?

0:15:30
I mean, why not?

0:15:31
Ask any vegan, they must be. The hardest part about being vegan is keeping it to yourself. Why did the vegan cross the road to tell you that they're vegan? I know that my vegan students are judging me. They're like, what? I'm like, yeah. I'm all like, I could tell when people judge me just by looking at them. Okay, but rest assured, I am more vegan than a vegan.

0:16:15
It's true. I was in Iceland and I was giving an open day talk and some, you know, there

0:16:16
was some new guy and he comes over to me, he's like, what do you think about being vegan? And I'm like, I'm more vegan than a vegan. And he's like, what do you mean? And I said, I eat, I'll tell you what I do. I do 1.5 liters of lemon water, we call it Ushapana. And then I do celery juice, and then I do watermelon juice, and then I meditate for six hours, and then somewhere in the evening around six or seven, I eat like a cabbage salad. I don't eat bread, I don't eat cheese, I don't eat fish, I don't eat rice or anything. I'm like, I'm more vegan than a vegan. And then he was like, wow, that's so good. And he said, except for when I was flying over from Paris to Brickovic, I was like, yeah, when I fly, I just have to eat anything. Actually, I need like, like, I'm in the airport, and I just went and got a chicken sandwich. And he's like, what? He's like, wait a minute, I thought we were on the same team. I'm like, well, yeah, I know. I'm not kidding. So, like, when I travel, I go on my, you know, going to teach. I have to go out of my pristine environment of Hawaii and my way of life where I can have my juices and just meditate for hours, right? And I have to go through very difficult things. I'm very psychic, so when I go to an airport, everyone's so crazy. Everyone has a bad attitude. You know, if you ever look at a picture of people flying on airplanes in the 1950s or 60s, there aren't, the men are wearing suits, the women are wearing dresses. It's expensive, and it means something to them. It's special. And they bring a good attention. Now when you go on an airplane, it's like walking into Costco. I'm not kidding.

0:18:37
People just have this,

0:18:39
oh, they just want to get on there and like, watch movies and fall asleep. It's a bad attention. And the airports, really bad attention. It used to be like you're in the airport in the 50s, and you're like, oh, this is so special. Just cool people do this, you know? And now everyone's like, oh, it's dissolved. Anyway, so, that affects me, and I'm in this place of transport and on that place of transport, and it affects my energy. So, I have to eat meat. So my teacher was always like, yeah, being vegetarian is better. So he was always eating a salad. But he said, for martial arts, if you're going to go into a tournament, he's like, eat beef, eat steak, eat hamburgers for that week before you go into the tournament. Because, you know, like if you're like all spacey and spiritual, it doesn't go over well in a fight. Eating meat, beef is the most intense one, it slows down your vibration. So if you're dealing with intense energies like martial arts or an airport, it slows your vibration so that you don't get out of balance with the crazy energy of the fight or the airport. So there's reasons why. Like, I'll be in an airport and say, oh, I need a chicken sandwich. I'm going to go to Burger King, and I'm not going to get the Burger King Whopper with the, what's that stuff called? Impossible beef? Impossible burger, but I like that too. Because actually the energy of beef, it slows down your vibration. Now when I'm here in Hawaii and I want to just sit around and meditate, I don't want my vibration to be slow. I want to be free, I go really high and I don't have heaviness. And that's why I don't eat anything until seven o'clock in the evening, because all day I go higher and higher and higher and higher because I'm just keeping it easy. You know, I don't even eat lunch. Like, if I eat lunch, I'll go, oh. We used to do this like, you guys all probably do this in the world. You eat lunch, you're working, you eat lunch, and then you're like, coma.

0:21:17
Right?

0:21:17
I remember on Wall Street, after one o'clock, from one o'clock to like 3.30, everybody was just like, go.

0:21:26
And we'd have to, you know, we'd schedule meetings

0:21:28
and stuff like that, but everyone's like, because everyone would go out and eat New York food, which is terrible. They're all pizza, I don't know, whatever. So there is a reason to, you know, Buddha said that you take food like medicine. And if you're spaced out and you go into an airport or an airplane or something, or into the world, and you're spaced out, you're going to feel terrible. But if you have a hamburger, and you go into a situation, I hate hamburgers, and you go into a situation, you'll be like, all right, I'm grounded. So I remember I told this to Raja, who's one of the leads of the whole Bay Area sangha. And I think he was like a vegetarian and then he came to Chicago and we were there and I was like, I was like, and he's like, I feel so weird because he's so sensitive. I said, and we were, I think we were flying somewhere together. We're in the airport and I said, eat a burger. And he's like, what? No, it's crazy. I said, no, eat a burger. He's like, I can't believe my Buddhist teacher is telling me to eat a burger. I was like, this is my inlain conduct. I bought him a burger, shoved it in his face, he ate it, and he's like, he couldn't accept it. He's like, it's terrible. Like you're a Buddhist and you are so pure at certain times, but then you will kill a chicken or a hamburger, I killed a hamburger, and you will eat him." And I'm like, yeah. He's like, don't you feel bad? I'm all, no. He's like, but why? That's my galaxy question.

0:23:52
But why?

0:23:56
And I was like, I don't know about chicken. Okay, and this gets to Buddhism, because there's actually lots of Buddhists who are totally vegetarian and stuff, and you know, tons of Buddhists are very... you can go to ashrams and there's only vegetarian food.

0:24:27
But let's get back to what Buddha taught.

0:24:29
Buddha ate beef. He ate the sacred cow.

0:24:35
He did.

0:24:37
Buddha ate pork.

0:24:38
Buddha ate chicken.

0:24:41
There's many, I mean, if you read the stories of Buddha, a lot of stories of him eating meat. And he had, Jesus ate meat.

0:24:51
Those guys are jerks.

0:24:53
Just completely wrong, right, vegans?

0:24:56
I'm more vegan than you.

0:24:57
Part time. Most time. I mean, anytime I come, anytime I have to travel to teach, I have to take my medicine. When I come back from a Euro tour, I'm like, oh my god, I don't feel good that I had to eat that stuff. And I just love my normal juice and salad in the evening. But I go out and do this to help you. But I have to take my medicine. I remember there was this British guy, I don't remember, I heard this story somewhere. There was this British guy who was a vegan for like 12 years. He was like totally vegan. And you know, like he loved being a vegan. He would go online and yell at people who didn't like it. You know, vegans go like this, I'm a vegan because I really don't like killing animals. And then one of their friends on Facebook would be all, yeah, cool. I like that. But I'm cool with like eating chicken. How dare you? You know, it gets so upset. And he was like that. And then he's like, I'm vegan, but I'm spiritual. And he's like, I'm going to Thailand to Chiang Mai in the jungle and becoming a monk. And he became a monk. And guess what you do as a monk? Buddha's teachings is you can't even pick up

0:26:35
a cauliflower from the ground and eat it.

0:26:37
You can't take an apple off a tree and eat it. Everything that you eat is given to you. And what you eat is what everyone eats or what everyone wants to give you. They're like, I'm gonna keep my filet mignon, but I'm gonna give you some flank steak.

0:26:56
I don't know. And so, like, he goes to Thailand,

0:27:00
he's like, oh, I'm so spiritual, I'm all vegan and all this stuff. And vegan is like a good quality. It's good intention. Vegan is a good intention. And then he goes, and as a monk, he's like, what's my first meal? Rice and frog. And he's all like, he's like, oh my gosh. So he didn't eat the frog, he just ate the rice. But he lived there for years and years and years and finally had to let go of being vegan because you know, some days there's no rice. Some days it's just fried grasshoppers or tarantulas. And you're like, and he's like, I need to eat. He had to get over his vegan ego. And that is right That's enlightened conduct. I know that it sounds so terrible to vegans, but I can out-vegan you. But I take food as medicine. And if I don't have to take food as medicine... You know, I've spent so many lives sitting in a cave not even eating anything. Right? So... And, you know, being a vegan, good intent, but I have to, I have to, this is what spiritual teachers do. They challenge you. Um, so this guy eventually was like, he had to let go of his, his vegan-ness and just eat what he got and just to survive and he got all sorts of weird stuff, like snail curry and crickets and frogs and sticky rice. No, like you're in the jungle in Thailand, and I remember these monks go knocking on someone's door, they come over with their bowl. I was like, and they actually have this family. And they have like, you know, they have some food, but they're like actually not, I mean like, no one's rich, right? And so you can share your food, but they're like all, they're like, the kids, we've got to feed the kids, and then the monks come and they're stressed out and they're like, okay, we can give the monks a little bit of food. And I know it's a good thing, but I'm like, oh, let's actually be monks who give to others. I like that idea. So Buddha in his time, there's a great story of Buddha. There was some great general, his name was Shiha, or something like that, Shiha. And he was this great general, and he was a Jain. And then he met Buddha, and he's like, Oh my gosh, Buddha, you're so merrily. And he's like, Please come to my great house, like great house. And he's like, and bring some of your monks, and I will make a beautiful meal for you. I would like to offer you alms. And Buddha says, okay, cool. And so Buddha comes with like a dozen monks, and the general is like, this is so special. I saw Buddha's teachings, he's so great. I'm gonna make an amazing meal. And he makes a really beautiful meal. But one of the things he does is he takes this one cow, he's like, I gotta get that wonderful cow, and we're gonna kill that cow, and we're gonna make it for Buddha. And the Jains are not happy because, you know, they're like, hey, I thought you were a Jain, but you like Buddha. Jains are cool, Jains are all enlightened. They were just, at the same time, a different enlightened way. But they were vegetarian and stuff. And they were like, oh my gosh. So this one Jain showed up, and he was like, oh my goodness, Buddha, you're supposed to be this really spiritual dude. But you, because of you, that cow was killed, and for your pleasure and enjoyment and your

0:31:38
monks."

0:31:39
And Buddha goes, I know that. So Buddha had a rule in the Vinaya, the teachings for the monks. focused person. If you know that someone's gonna kill an animal to feed you, that is not Dharma. You can't do it. But if you don't know, like, Buddha's like, you can go to the market and get some food. It's fine. It's just that someone can't say, you want some chicken? I got a chicken. See this chicken? So cute. Here's a Chick-fil-A. Right? That's Adharma. But if you, you know, if someone just puts a chicken sandwich in front of you, you're like, this is no longer a chicken. I don't have a connection with that chicken spirit. It is changed. And so Buddha ate beef and pork, chicken and fish, and as long as he didn't know that it was getting killed for him, and sometimes it was. Sometimes people would be like, like this general, he's like, I'll kill this amazing cow to give you some food to the monks. But the monks didn't know that. Buddha didn't know that. And then there, but the Jain knew that. The Jain was like, I saw them get that, kill it, butcher it, feed you. Buddha, you killed something for you. And he's like, I didn't know it. This is not my intent. And he said, so then eating is a dharma. So, yeah, Buddha and Jesus probably didn't know what they were talking about, right, vegans? So we shouldn't listen to them. We should just argue on Twitter. So funny.

0:33:47
There's a lot of stories of that.

0:33:49
But you have to understand, it's not what you do, it's if you do what you do with the Dharma. That is Zenko. That is what, if you do something, you can do anything, but if you do it with enlightened Dharma, then it's Zenko is to get rid of trouble in your mind. You got to get rid of anger and hate, you got to get rid of desire and attachment, you got to get rid of self-importance and ego. And if you get rid of those things, then there's Zenko. Everything that you'll do is just going to be perfect. If you have no desire, no attachment, no ego, no self-importance, no hate, no animosity, no one's going to have a problem with you. Everyone's going to like you. You just, I mean, you might be just still sitting there. But you have a very good energy. Buddha always used to say, everyone loves an arhant, everyone likes an enlightened person. And when some of my contemporaries started becoming liberated, they're like, You are Zenko. You are enlightened conduct. Everything that you do, everyone likes. Everyone feels good.

0:35:45
Everyone feels supported.

0:35:46
Everyone, you like, you solve problems. Someone comes over to you and you just listen and you're just Zenko. You don't have any self. And everyone just feels good. And they feel better, elevated, luminous, because you have no self. And if you have no self, then enlightenment just comes through you. That's Zenko. But you have to get rid of, like if you still have the stains of desire and attachment, of hate and greed, negativity and stuff like that, it's not going to be good. Then anything like that, those, the samskaras, deep karmas, then that they will, they will come up and create trouble with everyone that you face. If you have one defilement of attention, and if you're not practicing Zenko enlightened conduct, that one thing just make everybody hit your guts. It'll, it'll cause trouble for people. It'll hurt people. Zenko is, you know, a teaching for the Sangha, originally, but it's also a teaching for the world.

0:37:01
But we perfect it as monks.

0:37:03
I mean, this is a teaching of an enlightened master for the monks of his ashram and once we get it right here we give it to the world. But we got to get it right here. So desire and attachment is trouble. If you have self-interest, you have to start to observe, I want something, and say, why do I want it? And when you want something, you are always, probably, most of the time, 99% of the time, taking something. And if you take something, you're taking it away from someone else and holding it in the self. So, if you have desire, and all the spiritual teachings of enlightenment are just like, don't have desire. But you have to start looking. You're saying, oh, I have a desire. I want an ice cream. If you take an ice cream, you took a cow, smell, first, baby, I don't know. Took an ice cream from a little kid, I don't know. All sorts of stuff. But you actually have to start kind of like thinking about, I want this. And if I want that, who would I be taking it from?

0:38:33
Who am I depriving?

0:38:35
And even with an ice cream, you can like think about like silly ways of understanding, oh, I took an ice cream from a kid or something like that. I mean, you gotta think about things like that. And then desire, you say, desire is bad. But it is, you know, and we want to be mindful and think about this and stuff, but if you have a wish for something for yourself, it can be very unbalancing. I remember with my teacher, there was a yoga project, there were four yogis on the project. They got together and they split the company into four. Everyone had 25% of whatever they were going to do and they had nothing. And then they built their product, software product. And then one of the monks did most of the work. He built like 70% of the whole product. And then he said, I did most of this. I should get more than 25% because he built the product. And then he goes to my teacher and he says, I want more. My teacher said, oh. And then he said, but I did more. I did most of it. And then my teacher told him, in the very beginning of Apple, Steve Wozniak created the computer. Steve Jobs, he couldn't create a computer.

0:40:18
He was just standing there going,

0:40:18
yeah, let's create a computer. Right? And then, once Steve Wozniak created the computer, he was like, why are we 50-50 partners? You didn't do nothing. And he was mad at him.

0:40:38
I yelled at him.

0:40:39
And then Steve Jobs was like, I'm going to do my part. But you had to do your part, and now I'm gonna do my part. And guess who we all hear about? Steve Jobs, right? He made it so big. He did his part in his time. And so my teacher said, you did your part, and these guys are gonna do their parts too.

0:41:06
This guy just couldn't deal with it.

0:41:08
He was like, I want more. I should get at least half of the company, I built the product. And then my teacher said, okay, this is too much self, you can't be on the yoga, you keep your 25%. And then the other three guys built the company, it took them longer, because they didn't have that anymore. So it was, you know, it was harder, but they eventually were very successful. And they made a very successful company, made tens of millions of dollars and stuff, and they gave him his 25%, but he wasn't able to follow that yoga. He fell off the yoga. And that means that he didn't get the spiritual teachings. And then when my teacher started giving the advanced teachings for successful yogis, he wasn't invited. He made a lot of money, but he just didn't participate in the yoga because he wanted something. So my teacher told him years later, you wanted to take something for yourself from your partners. If you ever want something that puts someone in a lower condition, a weaker condition, you might call it good negotiation. You better focus on the spiritual teaching. If you try to take something from someone that puts them into a worse condition and you become strong because of it, then that's very, very, very, very bad. We never do that in yoga. We never do that in spirituality. So that was the final teaching for this guy. It's like, wow, I did something really good, helped the company a lot, got a lot of money from it, but just didn't learn that lesson until way after the end. Okay, it's a really important teaching. Never use power, your power, your personal interest, your desire, to get something that will diminish another person. That is not enlightened conduct. You need, any time that you want something, go, hey, cool, I'm going to get that. You have to say, am I, okay, where's my self-interest, where's my desire, and is this a win-win, is this positive? You can't just go, I'm gonna get what I want, because then you'll fall out. You'll fall out. This is the Bodhisattva trick.

0:43:53
If there's the door to enlightenment

0:43:55
and everybody else is around, if you go, I'm going to go to the door to enlightenment, you'll find yourself missing it, and in the back of the room. But if you're like, everybody else, please go first, then you find yourself through the door. This is the, I mean, that's the desire for others to elevate, not for the self. My teacher always used to say, advance yourself by advancing others. So, you have to examine the places where you say, I want this, I want this. And then realize that any time that you want something, there's trouble. So we've got to get rid of desire and attachment. The other thing is you've got to get rid of hate. And hate is kind of the opposite of zenko. It's like, if I'm angry at something, definitely it's not enlightened conduct. It's not good etiquette, it's not Dharma, it's not elevated behavior in any way. It is the worst. It's the worst that you can bring. Hate, violence, negativity. So you have to say, well, if I have hate, I've got to deal with this. There's this saying everyone prescribes to the Buddha. If you know, being angry or having hate is like drinking poison and expecting your enemy to die. It's funny that they say that, a lot of people say that Buddha said that. I was like, actually, I don't think Buddha said that. I mean, I was like, that's a good thing. That's a weird thing. Who would want to drink blood? I don't think Buddha would say that. Anyway, so Buddha didn't say that. But it's a good point. It's like, oh, I'm so mad at you.

0:46:14
You dead yet? Cracks me up.

0:46:16
So, hate and anger never help you. They only hurt you. If you're angry about something, it never helps you, it only hurts you. I know that like, some people say, if I'm angry, it motivates me. It's bad motivation. You need to just let go of anger and focus on like a higher something positive. So, hate is not a good thing. You've got to let go of your negativity. If you have bad thoughts, angry thoughts, troubled thoughts, disturbed thoughts, these are all what I call hate. If you're trying to work through your hate,

0:47:04
that's stupid. Just drop it.

0:47:06
Drop hate and focus on like dharmic things. So there was this time, there was China during the sixth lineage holder of Zen, where the sixth lineage holder of Zen, I forgot his name, but he was like really enlightened and did lots of amazing teachings. He took 10 months and he said, I'm going to give you guys this amazing teaching, super amazing teaching, but you have to build a pagoda, a shrine, a temple. And if you build this pagoda here, a nice, really beautiful pagoda for the teaching, I will give you this amazing teaching, but it has to be really nice. And then they go, okay, cool. And they start working together, and then they disagree on the design, and that really messed them up because they're like, I know, it should be like this. No, because he said it should be really nice, and that's not really nice. And then they're like, okay, that was kind of half and half, and then they start building, and then they don't like how they're building together and then and then they in the story they got into a fistfight. These mugs got so mad they got into a fight and then then they just after the fight they just said we're not gonna work together because we can't. So then the sick lineage holder comes over and he's like, you guys have built like a third of nothing and it's weird. And then they explain all their troubles. And he's like, well, if you can't do this, I will not give that teaching and I'm gonna go elsewhere and give the teaching somewhere else where people can get it together. He's like, yeah, there's, you know, you guys are in the North, there's also ladies talking over there, and I'll work with those guys. And then they go, oh man, they realize

0:49:23
there's something more important than us

0:49:25
being pissed off at each other. And they're like, we don't want to miss that. And so they go, all right.

0:49:33
And they're totally pissed off at each other.

0:49:35
They totally disagree. They're opposites.

0:49:37
And then they go,

0:49:38
All right, what is it?

0:49:39
How do we figure this out?

0:49:41
And they talked.

0:49:42
I think more importantly,

0:49:43
they listened.

0:49:44
And then they said,

0:49:44
and then they were able to come together on a design.

0:49:47
And then they were able to work together.

0:49:48
And then they created some pagoda.

0:49:50
I think it's in Xi'an.

0:49:51
all the work together.

0:49:52
And then they created some pagoda.

0:49:55
I think it's in Xi'an, China. It's a city. And they created pagoda. And then the teacher came back and said,

0:50:07
all right, perfect.

0:50:09
And they were all like, okay. And then they're like, okay, cool. So what's super special teaching? He's all, yeah, that was it. That was it. So, you know, but being angry and negative never is constructive, never builds a temple. And then I think the final thing is self-importance. This is so important for spiritual people. Self-importance ruins everything. That's the root of the ego. And self-importance is like, oh, I'm good. I like me.

0:51:01
I don't like you.

0:51:02
You know, I like this. I don't like that. And self-importance, even if you have good intentions from self-importance, it can create trouble for everyone else. My teacher always used to say, you want to help somebody? Make sure they think it's help. I'm going to help you. It's like when the Afrikaners went to South Africa, you know, the Dutch go to South Africa, and Desmond Tutu, which is this reverend who was against apartheid, he said, when they came, we had the land and they had the Bible. And then we closed our eyes and prayed, we opened our eyes, and they had the land and we had the Bible. So, like, you know, this is the way of things. I want to help you. Here's a Bible and give me that. You know, like that's self-importance. Self-importance starts wars, right? Especially over religion. My religion is so important. You totally lose the spirit. It's just important. So important that I will kill somebody else because they don't agree with me.

0:52:26
Ridiculous.

0:52:27
That's what people do. And in spirituality it's the same. I have this spiritual thing and it's important to me. I'm spiritual. Oh, I have this, I am this, I learned this, I'm self-importance. It's the ego. And so you have to say, I mean, the essence of spiritual study is humility and always letting go, always being self-effacing, always letting go of self-importance. You know, the crux of spirituality is letting go of self-importance, letting go of the ego. You can do, you can memorize all your sutras and do all your yoga and be great and get a black belt and make a lot of money, anything. You can make all these achievements and gain certain strengths, but the ultimate thing of every spiritual practice is less self-importance, less ego. There was this time also during the sixth lineage holder of Zen in China, and he sent these two strong, like good senior monks up to the north. He said, go up to this city in the north and bring Zen there. And they were like, okay. So they go up and this one monk says, all right, hey, you know, this Buddha sent us up and hey everybody. And then they go, oh, okay. He's like, what's up? I got to get some money. We have to build the temple. And they go, mm-hmm. So he's like, here's my design. And everyone's like, yep, mm-hmm. And they build it, and then he starts like just doing teachings and everything, and then the other monk is just like, just supporting him. He's like, cool, just helping him, supporting him. He doesn't take charge, and he's just, just helping everything. Just supporting everything. Doesn't have, he's not the leader, he's not anything, he comes over, finally, when there's like thriving Buddhism going on. Big temple, lots of monks, all these lay people, all this support, brings Dharma to the land. And he comes over and he says, oh, I'm here to work with the leader, the abbot, the spiritual leader of the temple and of all the Dharma in this area that I sent you to do." And then the first guy's like, well, I designed this and I did that and actually I have a satsang happening in like half an hour, you should come check it out. And he's just like, let's talk. And then, I think maybe in the garden, the other guy is just raking leaves or something like that. You know, he's just like doing some task. And then the sixth lineage holder walks out to that guy. And the first guy's like, what's going on? What are we doing? He's a little bit amused. And he goes with him. And then he's like, he grabs the rake, he gives it to him and goes, you should practice. And he goes, All right, yeah, you like, let's go talk about what we're gonna what how we're going to expand the Dharma from here. So self importance can be the funniest thing you might like do all sorts of cool things. It looks all good and stuff like that but if you ever... Whoa! Oh, come here! Sorry. It's a happy, spotty dragon who saw a bird. I don't know. What are you so upset about? Anyway, so yeah, but self-importance, um, I gotta show you. I gotta show you what's going on. See? Here's our little doggy.

0:56:31
Yeah, but self-importance is a thing that like ruins everything.

0:56:37
Anything spiritual. So you want to make sure that anytime that you're doing something spiritual that yours are self-effacing. You say, wow, I did something, a good thing in yoga. And you're like, is that building up my ego? No. It just makes me stronger. So you can be powerful and do amazing things, but if it builds up self-importance, it's always trouble. You ready? Yeah, let's go. I wonder at all. Okay, so, um, I'll start wrapping up. So, it's not what you do, it's if you do is a practice. It's a discipline. Something that you have to constantly focus on. You can't just be like, okay, I'm enlightened so everything I do is fine. You have to say, even if I'm enlightened, I have to practice zenko. I have to practice enlightened conduct. And I have to be very mindful. I have to try effort enlightened effort in everything that I do so for example I've been doing Tai Chi for like 40 years and I do Tai Chi every morning and Every morning that I do Tai Chi. I don't just sit there and go. Oh, I'm a Tai Chi master. I put it on autoplay right every time I do Tai Chi, I'm focusing, I'm watching, I'm working, I'm going deeper into my Tai Chi practice. So I don't just like say I can do Tai Chi without thinking about it or paying attention, which I probably could, but I pay attention, I'm mindful, I use it as a practice to deepen my energy. It's a meditation, it creates energy, it's healthy, it's all these wonderful things. So I'm like, I go deeper into it. I don't just say, I'm great at Tai Chi, done it for so many years, but teach it. I'm a master. Every time I do it, I work on it, I try harder. That's what we need to do in our conduct with each other. And it doesn't mean that you're perfect every time. With Tai Chi, not too long ago, I came back from Europe and I wasn't practicing every day in Europe. And I came back and I was like, I was like, oh, this is a bad Tai Chi. I was like, my shoulder's too tense. I was like, oh, I don't, I just like, I couldn't bring up the chi as much as I usually do. Like I had all this, I was out of balance. I messed up on a step, you know? So I was like, not my best Tai Chi, but going through it, I was like, I still learn, I still grow. Even if I have an off day, even if I make a mistake, I still like learn from and grow. And that's the proper conduct. You know when you're talking to someone and you're like all and you know you do something that is not proper enlightened conduct you go ooh and then you see that they have a bad reaction to you. You say ooh I messed up. I need to you know you got to look into it you got to learn from it your spirit can grow if you're enlightened and you make a mistake, you say, ooh, my conduct wasn't at the level it should be. So, you know, everything, it's a moment by moment practice. You have to really, really, really work on it. You can't just phone it in, you know. It's like, it's so important in a sangha, so important to the self, to transcend and bring illumination. So, I'd like to talk about meditation. Meditation is the same thing. When you meditate, it's not automatic, it takes complete commitment. When you sit and meditate, you're like, I mean, some people just, they're thinking stuff, because you know, you're working on it. But that's what you have to do. You have to work on it, work on it, work on it. And even if you're an enlightened master, you have to work on it. It's not, you know, I sit down and I meditate, and I work on it, every single time. I don't just sit there and go, I'm pretty good at meditation.

1:01:38
I'm taking a nap.

1:01:40
You know, like, no, every time I meditate, I'm more excited, I'm more happy. Every morning I wake up, I'm like, yes! I'm in meditation. Now I'm really into it. Like, I'm very disciplined. And if I didn't, if I made meditation a routine, if I was just, let me just, like, sit there, That doesn't go forward. So with meditation, with enlightened conduct, it is something that we pay attention to, we care about, we really try, we really try earnestly. And then good things happen. So I'd like to do a meditation with you where we take this energy of moment by moment practice, deeper and deeper, every time we practice more for meditation. But this is also a way that we have an understanding of conduct towards each other. Close in. Then go.

1:02:54
Okay.

1:02:55
Sit up. Focus on the heart. All right. And we're going to bring the focus deeper and deeper, refinement by refinement, moment

1:03:05
by moment.

1:03:06
Okay.

1:03:07
Let's begin.

1:03:08
so So, I'm gonna go. so you so So you So be mindful of your conduct with each other.

1:04:12
In the Sangha, we have to have enlightened conduct. We treat each other with great care, etiquette, elevated behavior, focus. We're not sloppy. We also conduct our lives. You know, clean your room. Cleaning your room, cleaning your closet is Zenko. You have to be like, if I leave this closet super messy, it's my mind. Zenko's cleaning your closet. But it's also, and Dojin Zenji was like, it is conduct between sangha members. And then it is how we face the outside world. In your jobs, job yoga and also our yoga projects. We bring, once we clean our closet, once we have a strong relationship as a sangha, we can bring magic and power and enlightenment to the world. The Gap Buddy, Extreme Line, Bold Street, it's like these yoga projects where they figure out how to work together and build that pagoda, then all of a sudden light comes through, there's power. It's wonderful. So this is what we have to do, we have to work on this. Clean your closet, have wonderful, beautiful conduct and mindful conduct towards each other. Get rid of your desires and attachments, and get rid of your fears and your hates, and get rid of your self-importance, and then this beautiful Dharma just is present. is, let me get it on camera here, be excellent to each other. is, let me get it on camera here, be excellent to each other. Okay, thank you all so much!




Transcribed with Cockatoo
