0:00:00
All right, I hope you guys can see me in here. I will just assume you can go from here. All right, well, welcome to Satsang. We're going to begin with meditation. We will sit for one song with a focus on the heart chakra. So sit up nice and straight and let's begin.

0:00:27
♪♪ ♪♪ So so the the the So You So So All right. Alright, so today I'd like to give a teaching on Kukyu. Kukyu is a Zen teaching from the sixth lineage holder of Zen.

0:02:08
And Kukyu is this teaching called the Great Exit. So the Great Exit isn't death. The Great Exit isn't running away from life. The Great Exit is the way out of self. Exit from the ego. So this is a very powerful teaching of enlightenment. So, before the I arises, the I thought, the I concept, there is perfection. When the I thought, the I concepts, the I perceptions arise, there is wholeness. So awareness before self-concept is the exit. This is what we practice in meditation, in yoga. We try to stop thought, we practice selflessness. And we go beyond desire, beyond concepts, beyond fears, beyond attachments. And that is the exit, beyond the ego, beyond the self. And that's divine enlightened consciousness. So when we can meditate and stop thought, when you stop thinking, then all of a sudden you're beyond the eye and there's this transcendent spiritual experience. that the duality that we perceived, we see, was worthless. You know, it's like if you're watching a movie and you see gold, and you go, oh, I want to get that gold, and you're trying to get gold from the movie screen. That's how the self perceives life. That's duality. But when you stop thought, you don't need Google. So

0:07:16
You know

0:07:17
Exits are good They're necessary. I was at a Dreamforce you know, it's a tech conference and I was standing just Observing just looking at everybody looking at all the tech booths and everything and some security guard comes over to me and says hey You can't stand here. You're blocking the fire exit. And I was like, oh. I said, actually, no I'm not. If there's a fire, I'm going to be the first one out of this exit. I'm not blocking it. Anything flammable with legs is not blocking a fire exit. Anyway, so I listened, and I was like, okay, and then I said, you know, I'm, I'm going to go out. I don't want to be here anymore. So I turned around and I opened the door. And then all of a sudden this like loud ringing bell went off. And I was like, oops, I didn't know the door was alarmed. I mean, I didn't mean to startle it. So with that, I will see my way out. Like the time I was in this music store, I asked the guy who was working there, I said, hey, do you have any music by the doors? And he said, no, just exit signs. And then, you know, exit signs are good. They tell you the way to go. I was in the Budapest airport. I was, you know, I was about to fly to Paris just recently, and I was noticing the exit signs. They're very different than in America. And they don't show you like going out a door. They just show you like it's this green thing and it's just like just the way to go. And I was like, wow, instead of getting out of somewhere, it's just the way to go. And I thought that was so brilliant. So I followed it. I was like, this is the way to go. Apparently to my airplane, but then I found myself out on the street. And I was like, oh, gotta go back in. So, you know, egg signs are better than astrological signs. I mean, with astrology, you have like a 1 in 12 chance of cancer. But I don't believe in astrology at all, because, you know, Pisces are way too wishy-washy. And the only group of people who believe in astrology, the only people dumb enough to believe in astrology, are Sagittariuses. I mean, let's face it. I'm just kidding around. See, I just cracked myself up. I cracked myself up, and actually, just cracking myself up saying silly things is an exit. Like if you can laugh, if you can have a sense of humor, it's funny. And humor is an exit from the self. Saswat, who we go and visit. And one of his primary teachings is he just laughs. Like you sit there, room full of students will come in, and he'll go, and then he starts laughing, and then everyone starts laughing with him. And we can sit there and laugh for like 10 minutes straight, just laughing. And that's his spiritual teaching. So that's an exit. Laughing is funny. Laughing is out of the self. Laughing has a dharma. So in Tibet there was this one famous Rinpoche who was known for his compassion. And so he came to this, you know, monastery somewhere and the monks would come to him and have, you know, their concerns and he would help them. And the thing about him is any concern that you had, any trouble, he would reflect on it and then he would just start crying. He just cried so much and then the person would just go, oh, I feel so much better. So he always helped people with this crime. And so this one monk came over and he said, I'm struggling, I want to be able to meditate better. And it's hard and trouble, how do I do it? And this enlightened, you know, Rinpoche just listens, hears his concern and goes, oh, and just starts crying. And then the monk feels his compassion, his wave of compassion, and just loves this experience and is freed and then goes into Samadhi, a perfect meditative state of mind, the place that he wanted to experience high state of consciousness. And then after the Rinpoche leaves, he goes over to the abbot and he says, oh wow, that Rinpoche helped me so much, he's so compassionate, he'll do anything for anyone because he just cares so much. And then the abbot goes, Yeah, yeah, yeah, we were in the monastery together. And he's very compassionate. He spent three years going to an acting school to learn how to change his laughter into crying. So that he can help people more. Because when people would come to him with their troubles, he would see through it that it's not even trouble. So it just seems a little arrogant. Someone's like, hey, I'm having a really hard time. And he's all, oh! And at first, he would laugh at people. Then he goes, hmm, I have to work on being more compassionate. So he went to an acting school to learn how to. He had so much energy that he was like, I got to change my laughing into crying. So he's like, instead of laughing at people, he'd yell. And then they were like, oh, we accept your grace. So that's the way of things. Yeah, that's the way of things. Humor is a But the main point of the Great Exit is that you're not a fixed person. You're not who you think you are. You think you are one thing.

0:14:14
Me.

0:14:16
And everything else is everything else. But this is an understanding of you are one thing, but that's just one little thing. And you also are something else, which is everything else. It's like in quantum physics. They did an experiment where they found an electron and they were able to do an experiment to see an electron is a thing. And they did an experiment where they saw that it could be in two places at the same time. That it wasn't one, but it was two. And that's the way things are. Like, they could, I mean, like, in physics, they could do that. And that's what the Ascet is. That's what Buddhism is. That's what enlightenment is. It's to see that you are the one thing, but you're not just the one thing, you are more than the one thing. And that gets you out of duality. When you just think you're one, it's you against the universe, but when you see that you are something more than one, then all of a sudden, it's you and everything else. The great exit also is when you're facing the hardest challenges, like when you have a difficult time, when you have trouble in the head, in your mind, in your cabeza, then that's the great exit. The great exit is how to see the way through hardships, troubles, and difficulties. So there's this time, after the Ten Dynasties, ten kingdoms emerged. And then there was a lot of wars and stuff like that. So there was this emperor of one of the kingdoms, I forget which one, and this emperor was going along, moving somewhere with his brigade, and came along this one sage, a Taoist sage, sitting under a tree. And the sage was happy, smiling, just looking at life, reflecting life and smiling. And the emperor said, there's something about this stage. I got to go talk to the stage. So he gets off his chariot or whatever, walks over and says, Hey, you know, whenever I see, you know, someone who, you know, goes off and is just spiritual, I always see that they're struggling. And I always thought that it's struggling because they're lacking something. But when I see you, you're not lacking anything. So you're a renunciate that is happy. How is that? And the Taoist sage says, I'm not a renunciate. You are a renunciate. And then he said, how so?

0:17:49
I'm an emperor.

0:17:50
I've got a kingdom. I'm strong, I'm rich, I'm powerful. And he said, you've given up, you know, love of friends and family for control. And he's like, oh my gosh, yeah. He's like, I'm all into money, all into wealth development. I'm at war with my neighbors and controlling my family and my country. I'm controlling them. And then the sage said, I'm the true luxuriant. And that means I can walk across the border to your enemy, no fight, peace. I don't need any wealth. I have all the wealth I need with my alms bowl. I don't need any wealth. Everything is wealth. And everyone, everyone recognizes me as a sage. That I give offerings of truth and spirit that make people feel balanced. And then the emperor was like, whoa, that's a big deal. So then he became a disciple of the sage. You know, a very important aspect of the Great Exit is what we call yoga. That means that you work selflessly, what Buddha called right livelihood. You work selflessly. Because let's face it, most people, most students can't just be in enlightened consciousness all the time. And even in their meditation, they probably can't stop, most people can't stop thought for even 10 seconds, let alone 10 minutes. And so we have to do something that is a powerful practice. We call it yoga. Yoga is the exit.

0:20:27
Yoga is the door to enlightenment.

0:20:30
Just like with Milarepa, he did a lot of work, but then his enlightenment happened in a cave. His teacher, Maraka, said, go into this cave. And his teacher even put a whole bunch of rocks to cover the entrances of the cave so no one would come in. It's like, this is a cave of your own. And that's a place where you can meditate, be safe, and that's your exit. That reminds me of Virginia Woolf, a great author, right? I mean, many of you will understand she's a great American, I mean, great English author. And she wrote this amazing thing called A Room of One's Own. And it is kind of like the first modern primary on feminist literature criticism. And it is really beautiful. And in it, it's part criticism and it's part storytelling. And one of the stories she tells is that Shakespeare and his sister had the same path. That his sister was as brilliant as Shakespeare. what happens because of society and social conditioning. That it's a totally different experience. Shakespeare's father said, you're smart, I like you, you go on to school and university. And the daughter, hey, anytime you're reading a book, you should be cleaning the kitchen, cooking or something like that. And university, never going to happen. And the father's like, here's a person you have to marry, and that's what you've got to do. And then she runs away because she doesn't want it. And then she ends up, you know, like trying to do some writing, and then trying to be an actress and then, I mean, it gets pretty dark then. And she's trying to be an actress and then there's a production manager and then he gets her pregnant, she has a baby and then she kills herself. This is a dark analogy that Virginia Woolf had. It's like if there was someone equally talented as Shakespeare at that time, because of the conditions of karma, you don't stand a chance. So this means that the way of an exit is to have your cave. Because this is her criticism called a room of one's own. And that means, and she says, she's like, this is a room where the woman affords it, has a key to open it or close it as she wishes. It's her own place. That's what yoga is. Yoga is Milarepa's cave, or it's a room of one's own, where you have to be able to shut off the world, and you have to work on something. That is your exit. Yoga is union. Yoga is an exit. So, that's very strong. You know the problem that the self has is that the self tries to find happiness, eternal happiness in the transient world. And that is always always going to bring suffering. If you're like, oh my greatest joy is that there's this fire, the fire will eventually go out. Oh it went out now I'm cold and upset. That's what the self does. It's always trying to find this is good I want that forever. But then that goes away and now I'm desperately in suffering. So, we have to understand that the self or the mind is an instrument. It's not everything. You can do a lot on instruments. Play some saxophone. You can play some Kenny G.

0:25:57
But it's not everything. And...

0:26:03
And everything is a bigger story. So, like an instrument, let's say a piano. A piano, a lot of keys and all sorts of things, and if you hook it up to MIDI, you can do a symphony and all sorts of stuff, right? But it doesn't express everything.

0:26:26
And so, the piano is what it is.

0:26:29
So it is a thing. And that is what a self is. But you can't get everything out of the piano. You can get a lot. And you have to work on it to make yourself a good piano player. But there's also the ocean. And everything else. So that is where you accept what the self is, but you have to be that electron that's in two places. And then you are aware of all things. That means that you're not just the piano. You're the player and everything else. This is very important. So the problem is that people look at things from this view of self. And the view of self is a view of thinking about self. You're like, I think this, I think that. And the thinking world has a glitch. Thinking has a glitch. There's a limitation of thinking. You can't see everything in a thought. You can see only a partiality in thought. And so everyone's minds are little partialities of many thoughts. And that's your awareness field. It's like if you're driving a car, there's a windshield. All these little ideas and thoughts are obstructions, little pieces of dirt on the windshield. And then we have so many little obscurations that you're like, oh, I'm trying to drive here and then I crash into something. So I'm in Mendocino right now, Mendocino, California, visiting my mother. We were driving on this road where there's these people driving and then they got drunk or they were drunk and then they were driving and then they crashed into a tree and one of the guys in the car died. And it's like, oh, that's horrible. This is how the mind is. It's as if you're drunk and intoxicated, you can't see life clearly. And so you will proceed into peril. And that's why everyone suffers. You can suffer pain, agony, suffering, and eventually you could suffer death. So this is the way of the self. It's a way of trouble and not seeing things right, not being able to tell what's real, and to get into some kind of suffering. And then, when you get to the spiritual path, the folly of spiritual seekers is they try to wipe away this windshield with the dirty rag, let's call it, a dirty cloth. Trying to wipe away the dirt on the windshield with more dirt, with a dirty cloth. And that is to say that you try to wipe away your concepts with higher concepts, higher thoughts. Higher thoughts, you know, like, oh, I don't like this idea, so I'm going to comb over it with another idea that's a better idea. And even if that better idea sinks in, it's still an idea, it still covers your windshield. It's still driving where you can't see clearly. So the self says, I have a better idea. I don't like this idea of myself, so I'm going to work on a better idea of myself. There was this Zen master, he had this student, and the student was concentrating, he's doing some kind of meditative practice, he's trying to concentrate himself into enlightenment. And the Zen master said, what are you doing? And he said, I am wiping away the obscurations of self from my mind through my meditation.

0:30:53
And the Zen master said,

0:30:53
yes, I know exactly what you're talking about. And then he picked up a rock and he started polishing it with a cloth. And then the Zen monk says, what are you doing, master? And he said, I am polishing this until it's a mirror so I can see clearly. And the monk says, that's ridiculous, you're never going to clean that rock enough to see clearly a reflection of yourself. And then Zen Master says, same with your meditation. The way you're meditating is just like trying to polish a rock. Or a self trying to clean a windshield with a dirty rag. So, here's the spiritual secret of it all.

0:31:49
Stop-clock.

0:31:52
The moment... so everything that's dirty on the windshield, your awareness field of life, is self-concept. So if you just stop thought, all of a sudden the windshield is clear and then everything that you do is easy to drive. When the windshield is clear, everything is easy to drive. So we start with the mind. Because when you transform the mind, you transform your reality. You only perceive life through the mind.

0:32:34
And if you

0:32:36
transform the mind from seeing

0:32:38
little to eternity, then everything that you see is eternity. When you transform the mind, then there's no obstacles that are trouble because you can drive around them you can deal with them yeah so Zen master and a monk and the Zen monk comes over and says Zen master I'm very troubled very troubled because this this this I'm trying to meditate and this other monk bothers me. I'm like, really, another monk bothers you? Could that ever happen? And then, and the master says, let me show you something. Pull out this long scroll, it's like just long, nothing written down, opening it up, opening it up very long, and then all of a sudden there's this, there's a dot in the middle of the scroll. And then when the scroll's open about 10 feet, there's this dot. And then the Zen master says, what do you see here? And then the monk looks at it and says, it's a dot? Tell me more. I mean, it's its own thing, separate from everything else. And then the Zen master says, look at the dot, but look at everything else. There's the dot, but there's this giant long scroll. Look at the whole space." And then the monk goes, oh, so I see that dot, but I also, now I'm aware of the whole space of that scroll. And then the Zen master says, what is that? What do you see? And the monk says, I see unity. And then the Zen monk seeing beyond the limitation of the dot goes into Satori, an enlightened state of consciousness. We often look at the dot of life, our limited view, who we are. But the exit is seeing the big picture. So when I talk about the big picture, I talk about the mandala. And the mandala is not different than the Zen scroll and that it's all a big scroll. More blanket. It's a movie reference. So, the mandala is the exit. The mandala is everything seen as the way out, seen as unity. So what I'd like to do, so I sit with you, we're gonna have a focus on the third eye and we're going to do this practice, you know, Kukyu, the exit, the great exit, and it is stopping thought, going to the place of awareness prior to self-thinking, self-concept, self-ideation. And just being in that consciousness, exiting the self and experiencing awareness as it is prior to duality. So we'll sit just for one song, focus on the third eye, sit up nice and straight, and let's begin.

0:36:59
so So so So Thank you all. Beautiful meditation. Beautiful meditation. Now I'm going to see my way out.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
