0:00:00
Hello. Good morning. So, happy birthday. It's a wonderful thing to celebrate the life of an enlightened person, the life of a great soul, because the day that they were born, came into existence, their life came into this world, and as a result, they brought beautiful, wonderful dharma to this world. So this is why we, you know, celebrate this day. There's a certain special dharma, especially for our lineage. So I'd like to begin with meditation. So we'll sit with a focus on the third eye for one song and this is a song that Mujira wrote that's called Rama. And this song is really great. I like it. It really reminds me of some of the dimensions and teachings that Rama taught back in the mid-90s. I remember when we were in New York and he was on stage, like these dimensions are very, very strong. So it's fun. So sit up nice and straight and let's begin.

0:01:25
So, you So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So Rama's life was a miracle. The greatest miracle is that he brought enlightenment into this world, or at least into this school. So he himself, being an enlightened master in many incarnations, brought enlightenment here. thing, because the teachings of enlightenment, they lose enlightenment. They just become knowledge over time. So from time to time, there has to be an enlightened one who recodifies

0:02:49
the teachings, who comes back and says, no, no, here it is, the spark. So this is the case in a lot of even well-known spiritual lineages, that the enlightenment part is missing. There's lots of, you know, ideas, concepts, there's lots of knowledge, but you don't see anyone who is enlightened. So when you look at, you know, often Zen, Veravada Buddhism, Mahayana Buddhism, Vajrayana Buddhism, all Buddhism! Yeah, you look at a lot of things, and you're like, okay, well, here's all these teachings of enlightenment, where's the enlightenment? And, you know, for example, Buddha said, my sangha, my school of enlightenment will last a thousand years. And then the Buddhist monks today are like, hey, we're still here. Except for the enlightenment, where's that part? Ha ha ha, cracks me up. Anyway, so it is really a miracle that a person could come and say, okay, here's all this stuff, but now, there's enlightenment in it. That's the miracle. And it's a really important thing, you know, because like in Buddhism, Samadhi is basically a myth. You know, like they talk about Samadhi, and then when they talk about meditating, they're all, yeah, you're going to have thoughts, you just let them be there." And I'm like, what? And then Rama was able to demonstrate samadhi and teach through samadhi. And then that way I was able to learn how to go into samadhi. So it's a luminous and real and powerful miracle. And that was the way Rama said, the only way you could learn really the higher stage or Samadhis is by having a master who can go into those states. And I remember, you know, when I first started out, I couldn't meditate very well at all. And I never believed I would ever go into Samadhi. So it definitely happens. And Rama was also really well known for doing miracles. So he would do, you know, what we call the siddhis, the powers, and, you know, him and his 800 students would go out to the desert and he would do all this magic. And all the students would be like, wow, Rama's magical, he's amazing. But he also taught it to us, right? So now all my students go, oh yeah, Sambar is magical, right? Because Sambar does all these set of powers. Like we go out into the desert, he disappears or he turns into a light or something like that. And I'm like, yeah, I learned all that. And now I teach that to my students. So I have, you know, arhats, liberated students who have gotten the transmissions of the Siddhas, the Siddhi powers, and they're able to do these things. So it's a, it's a miracle. You know, Buddha, there's this one day where Buddha was like, okay, I'm going to show you guys the Siddhas. And then he did them all. But just one day, because usually he didn't do anything. But then, you know, he did this thing where he's like seen in a thousand places, going through the sky, turns into a fire, turns into like some air, and it just does everything. And everyone's all like, oh my gosh, Bhiso, yeah, so that's possible. Bhiso, but that's not the point.

0:10:04
And then a lot of the Buddhist arhants learned all the powers too. But Buddha had an etiquette. He said, don't do it. And the reason why is because if you get too much into using powers, then the ego gets attached. There's some karma, even for an arhant. So there was this one time where there was a monk and these brahmins were saying, you're lame, look, we can do some magic or something. And then Buddha was all,

0:10:49
Badar Han, Badar Han. So, in our school we have a very strong etiquette about the Siddha powers. It's that we do them, you know, we do them in a way where it's very harmless, and we do them at the right time. So, you know, when we go to power trips, that's where I'll do Buddhist magic. I'll show some amazing things in the desert or something like that. Or there's other times, like for example, remember when there was the fires and they were coming towards Bode Woods and we had to evacuate and there was like, we thought that Bode Woods was was going to get burned down. And then, you know, Shiva and Agni Kala, they're going, they say, we're going to save it. And I'm like, okay. I'm like, I'm good either way, I'm detached. But they go, we're going to save it. And they go, we're going to like make it rain. And I'm like, you know, it's August and there's like this giant fire burning through and they're all, yeah, we're going to make it rain. But I was like, that's a tough one I'm like I would go for the wind um but they made it rain and uh and you know like I think Tao sent us a picture of the firemen dancing or something because they're all yay and it was really funny because they call it sent that picture where it's just here's a line of this giant fire and then there's a little dip around our neighborhood. And then it's like, wow, that's really cool. So, you know, that's a thing. One of my favorite ones, we were in the mountains overlooking Death Valley, and she was really good with weather. And it was raining up there. And we get out to the overlook, he gets out of the car, it's just raining, and he takes his jacket off, he's in a T-shirt, he walks out, opens his arms, and then it stops raining. So it was really kind of fun. You know, like, and that's weather, and Rama was really good at weather. So these are just like miraculous things. Miraculous things. And Rama taught these miracles, and when you're in this study, you know, when you get to the advance, you get the transmissions, then you start to, these siddhas and miracles come out in you. Samadhi is a miracle. The cities are miracles, and enlightenment is the greatest miracle. And this is why we celebrate. I also want to mention that we're going to do an Anza Brego trip, summer solstice. So you can start planning for that. And that's where, that's where I'm going to go to the desert and I'm going to perform these things. Anyway, so today we have Raja coming up next. We have a great lineup for you guys. Raja coming up next, and then Shiva, and then Turiya, and then Sati, and then I think I'll jump in at the end to say goodbye. So happy birthday.

0:14:14
Thank you, Siddhartha. Actually, a slight change. So Shiva is next

0:14:30
okay so everything's good I was saying that in show business they say that you should never follow an act of animals or children and that has nothing that He's truly magical and he's my friend. Rama would have been 72 this year, but he died at the height. I think he died at the right time. He took himself at the right time. His body was going. And it was his time. We all have our times. But as I look back on my time with Rama, words fall short.

0:15:29
I had my first awakening at five

0:15:33
and those awakenings would spark up once or twice a year, every year. And then they would go away and I would be back in the mundane, the Maya. And my life became as if I were walking down a hallway, a long hallway with all of these doors. And each of these doors had a little peephole or a very small window that I could look in and see into the other room. And, but I could only just look in. I would see different teachers. I would have different experiences and I would have some awakenings, but they weren't consistent. I was just looking in each door going further. I did all kinds of workshops, all kinds of retreats, everything, but I couldn't just make it happen. But when I went my first time with Rama, expecting again to just look inside a little window, into this amazing space, and it stayed with me.

0:16:55
I've studied as a student of Rama for probably half my life.

0:17:15
My awakening was fostered when I started to teach,

0:17:20
but my time with Rama was a setup for that. I was only interested in enlightenment. Computer science and all of those other things that everyone did were just obstacles that I had to muck through to get to enlightenment. That's the only thing I wanted was enlightenment.

0:17:44
And my teacher opened the door.

0:17:48
What can you say about someone who awakens you? There are no words. The only thing that I am so grateful is, as Simbharan said before, he gave it all to us through powerful transmissions of light and energy and awareness. And the throughout our life. Rama gave me a lot of Siddha powers which I had a lot of fun with and I think you should have fun with Siddha powers but there needs to be a sense of etiquette, a sense of appropriateness when using them. If you're using Siddha powers to impress people, to make it look like you're really advanced or whatever, it's pretty dull really. But when it's done selflessly with an open heart, full of compassion, so purely through you. there comes the realization of your true nature of who you are and another realization that this thing that you thought was life that you thought was your life it's just a temporary dream we are eternal we are endless.

0:20:02
We have no beginning

0:20:04
and we cannot end.

0:20:06
We are made of the divine and we express that divine in our life. We express it in how we treat others.

0:20:10
We express that divine energy in how we judge others.

0:20:14
Was in San Francisco with Jackie.

0:20:16
We were walking down the street and there was this guy comes up. He probably hasn't had a bath in a month or two. His clothes were filthy. He's

0:21:03
asking for some change and he said, I haven't had a good life. I never knew my parents. Now I'm into drugs.

0:21:19
And inwardly I looked at him and I said, Oh Buddha's into drugs. Interesting. Can

0:21:27
you see enlightenment? Are you mixed up in duality? Or is there a oneness?

0:21:39
Is there a connection to everything?

0:21:42
To everyone?

0:21:49
I am you and you are me.

0:21:54
I am this place, this place is me. And I'm beyond all of this, just as you are.

0:22:10
When you have an enlightened teacher,

0:22:11
and Rama created many enlightened teachers, he did.

0:22:14
But when you have an enlightened teacher, it is a treasure of which you probably will

0:22:16
not truly appreciate until it's gone. And then it may be too late. So when you're with your teacher, drink deeply. Open your heart. Make your connection with your teacher as I did with Robin, like an optical fiber. And anything that soils that connection has to be removed, processed, whatever it takes to make that connection clean. Keep your connection clean. Move. Your teacher is just a doorway. We're all just doorways. But if you really have the right idea and the right attitude, you'll knock on the door, the teacher opens the door,

0:23:19
and you walk into the other room.

0:23:21
Which is Samadhi. Moving past this world.

0:23:34
Moving past everyone and everything. The last test that you have to move past.

0:23:42
Is moving past your teacher. Just keep walking into the light. And Rama taught us that. He taught me that. He taught Sambara that.

0:23:58
He taught Agnikala that.

0:24:00
He taught Puriya that. I could go down the list. These amazing beings. All of us walked up to the door, knocked, he opened it and we walked through. Holding on to nothing, letting go of everything and everyone, all of our encumbrances, everything that keeps us attached, focused totally upon the light. Dissolving into the Dharmakaya, watching the ego scream and yell as it's being dissolved until there's nothing but the divide. And then you find yourself coming back into this body, all of the five senses limiting you, coming into a space where now there is up and down in and out hot and cold on and on all the dualistic things are here but where we were in Samadhi those things did not exist your true nature is Samadhi You will put up with your ego because you have an ego that helps you get through this world. It helps you drive your car. It helps you, you know, pump the gas and pay your bills. But that's just a temporary expression of your higher self. Your higher self is connected to the infinite. It is made of the infinite and in a way it is the infinite. We're not just connected, we are actually each other. It's easy to see that when you're in a spiritual community and everybody's clean and happy and trying to you know practice good practice but it's a little bit more difficult walking down the street coming upon a homeless soul. And all you can do is just see the light inside of them. Nothing you say or do and the physical will help, but what you see inside will awaken in its right time. I cannot say how grateful I am to Rama. Words cannot come close. He was my teacher. He woke me up. He provided me with the tools to continue my awakening. These are very similar to the tools that Sambara has given all of Rama was a treasure. We're here for a very short time. It's 75, I know how short it is. The measurement of your enlightenment is measured by your compassion, by your love, by your selflessness, by your selfless giving, and by your adherence to the truth of the Dharma. To do no harm. And sometimes when it comes to doing no harm, it means you have to be active. If someone is about to harm someone else, you would do harm if you did not interfere.

0:28:28
The reason behind martial arts, I suppose.

0:28:31
Do no harm. If someone is cheating you, they're creating bad karma and you have the opportunity to stop it. So you must stop them from cheating you. It's not that you're getting even or anything. It's just that you don't want to do any harm. When people cheat or harm you, they're creating incredibly bad karma for themselves. Stay on the path.

0:29:08
I think you can measure your awareness sometimes by how much do you smile.

0:29:24
It's such an honor to talk to each of you.

0:29:28
You are enlightenment, awakening. Some of you have awakened. But it never stops. It just keeps going. There's never a there. There's only expansion. There's only enlightenment. Happy birthday Rama. Namaste. Shiva, thank you so much for your beautiful teaching.

0:30:47
And now we will hear from Turiya.

0:30:50
Hi, I want to take just a couple minutes to talk to you about the goal of the path, the

0:31:02
spiritual path. Now as humans we love goals. We always want to know where we're going, what's going to happen, and have little milestones that we can check off and know that yes we're almost there. We like to measure progress. But when you And as you get into advanced spiritual practice, you start to realize that there is no goal. That there's nothing to strive for. That you already are awakening. Even if you haven't quite realized it yet, you are enlightened. And we can hear this intellectually, but it doesn't help us very much if we're not there yet. But we still cling to this notion of having a goal. it that way. I want to invite you to consider that the PATH is really more about refinement. It's about refining your awareness so that you can see more clearly, so that you can feel more deeply, and so that you can be of more service, ultimately. When we practice, there's two aspects that we utilize or talk about on the path. And that is wisdom and compassion. Sometimes they're compared to the two wings of a bird. Where if you have one without the other, you can't fly. Now wisdom is this undefinable emptiness from which all impermanent things spread. So there's really not a whole lot to say about wisdom. that nothing is solid in the way that we, in our human minds, want it to be. That we cling so tightly and try and make it in a certain way. That's wisdom, is realizing that things aren't that way. That they're empty. And then there's compassion. Compassion is the active principle, it's the other side of the coin of wisdom where we encounter the world with the sincere wish that others awake it. others awake it. So we have all this different things that we do that we kind of put under the label of skillful means. So we might teach meditation, we might show somebody the inner silence and that awakens their heart. skillful means has a very practical aspect to it because we have these bodies to support and we are living and working in the world so to have the ability to help somebody live a happier brighter life is a wonderful skillful means. But But yet as we're practicing, we're doing our meditation and we're going into silence and touching upon the wisdom, the emptiness, and then we're active in the world, practicing loving kindness and our compassion, all these different skillful means, we still have in the back of our mind that, oh, we've got to get somewhere, that we need to accomplish something. But the longer you're on the path, you realize how ridiculous notion that is. But when you first encounter it, when you first realize that that is a ridiculous notion, there can be this very heavy sense of nihilism that overcomes us. It says, well, what's the point of all this? And at that moment, a few different things can happen. We can just revert back to clinging to a goal and deciding that, oh, once I get the right technique, then I'll get there. And we fixate in our mind that enlightenment is a thing that we can then possess and own. And we go through this dark night of the soul, if you will, of nihilism. We just give up and say, oh well I've just spent all these years for nothing. It doesn't mean anything. And we stop and we lose our way on the path. lost for a time in worldly pursuits trying to fill that sense of longing to know our true nature. But the good news is eventually we find our way back. Once you've tasted that emptiness, that stillness, that silence, once you have touched light and it has been a conscious experience, then there's no going back. You're going to keep going eventually. But like I said, sometimes we take the scenic route. Or the third option is we learn to laugh. We realize that, oh yes, it is ridiculous to think that enlightenment is a goal, that we could actually get there. And it doesn't stop us in any way. We keep practicing. We keep looking for ways to be of service in deeper and more profound ways. We look for ways to love more, love more deeply with less attachment. the really deep work of being willing to see where we're hung up, where we're still grasping. And we do it in not such a way that we're trying to force ourselves free or beat ourselves up for still having these graspings, but we do it with a sense of humor and a certain lightness. And little by little we become more and more free. And the expression of that freedom becomes more and more refined. what we find. So I want to invite you to kind of let go of the goal for a while. It's fun to have goals as long as you're not attached to them. That's the big And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. We've been trying to reach our goal. We've been trying to reach our goal. We've been trying to reach our goal. We've been trying to reach our goal. We've been trying to reach our goal. We've been trying to reach our goal. We've been trying to reach our goal. We've been trying to reach our goal. We've been trying to reach our goal. We've been trying to reach our goal. We've been trying to reach our goal. We've been trying to reach our goal. We've been trying to reach our goal. We've been trying to reach our goal. we won't be happy. Because we'll be grasping.

0:41:53
We might have a moment of pleasure that says,

0:41:55
Oh yes, I succeeded. And then there's that big heaviness, that let down of like, Oh, it's over. And you're still clinging. So instead, I want to really invite you to look at that deeply. you're grasping. And instead to embrace this practice of refinement, which means that you don't take a sledgehammer into your life and to your practice, but instead you look at the grasping with that gentle sense of humor and say, oh look, I'm holding on right here. How does that feel? What is this doing for me? How is it stopping me from seeing my true nature and the full spectrum of reality unfolding before me. So forget about goals for a little while. Continue to refine yourself and your life. Bring that sense of play and fun and just see what happens. So thank you and have a wonderful day.

0:43:18
Thank you, Turija. And now we will hear from Raja.

0:43:23
Hi, everyone.

0:43:25
It's very nice to be here with you today. And today I would like to share some insights that I've learned recently while we were doing the 10 things I love about you exercise. We often talk about unity and love in the Sangha but it's important to have some tools to be able to access that and one thing that I could learn from that person. And then I realized, if I can open my heart to everyone, then I can learn from everyone. And then I was seeing and feeling, where is this coming from? Like, where is this wisdom coming from? And then I realized it all started when we joined the Pathway to Enlightenment, many, many years ago, in 2005. So, 2005, you know, Sambora opened, first he met us in Hungary, and we were very grateful for that, and a year later he established the Hungarian Sangha, so we were allowed to join. And many of us, I think more about 30 people at least, right away joined the Sangha. So we became baby Buddhists, which means we were excited, we had beginner's mind, but we also had our karmas and mistakes. And Samvara and Kali, they were teaching us lessons every week, they were coaching us first in QA, sales, and also spiritual lessons. And I remember in the early days we ran into some, you know, personal conflicts once in a while, and sometimes we were able to resolve it, sometimes we were not able to resolve

0:45:31
them.

0:45:32
And I remember Kali hearing about these conflicts, and she shared an important lesson with us and recently I realized this is where this love for the Sangha, this is, these are the roots for that wisdom and she, but she shared the thing, she shared, sorry, she shared this teaching with us which was treat everyone like treat your enlightened teacher somewhere. And since most practitioners on the pathway to enlightenment have respect for their enlightened teacher, this is a really important teaching, because they have respect for the teacher, but they may not have any respect for others on the path, right? There can be conflicts, there can be competition, right, different states of mind that are not conducive to progress and support. But since we all respected our Enlightened Teacher deeply, this was a very powerful lesson for us. And when I took this lesson to heart, it opened the door for personal development, transformation and learning.

0:46:50
And accepting everyone in the Sango,

0:46:53
you know, it can be an Arhant, it can be a brand new student who just joined the Sango yesterday. If you accept and open your heart, you can learn insights from them and it can help you transform and grow. And so in 2006, the first first time I could put this practice in use is, I was not very successful in anything. And I was, I was playing soccer and having fun, and I started getting bored with it. doing like karate per someone's recommendation. And then I was like, wow, I see him developing personal power, growing. And I'm like just playing soccer and being bored. And I don't, I didn't see developing myself in that. And I was, first I was just inspired. And then I asked him, hey, what do you think? What should I do? And he just shared the teaching, the recommendation that he got from Samwara, that Samwara recommended that he starts martial arts and does karate instead of Tai Chi, so he can develop personal power, because this is what we do. And he shared his insights, how he developed himself. And through that clean sharing of light, and me having an open heart, I could see that I didn't have to ask Samvara, but I was able to feel the same teaching. And so I was able to tune in to the connection with Samvara through Satori and say, oh, okay, like, what should I do? And then the answer came. And the answer was, yeah, of course, do karate. You know, you're not different, you're not special, do karate and it will help you develop personal power. And so, it took a while, but I switched from playing soccer to doing martial arts. Second example, pretty much around the same time, you know, around that time, 2005-2006, I didn't have good jobs. I got a job and even if I was good at the job, I stressed out so much that I decided to drop it. So they didn't fire me within three months, I quit because it was just too much. And eventually I landed in sales. So I was a salesperson, but like a bad one, right? So I could make sales to family and friends, but if there was a stranger, I was like freaking out pretty badly. And I was, again, seeing my career is like, oh, this is I don't know where this is going. I need to be able to pay rent, and I'm not sure how to do this. And again, very, very similarly, I was like, what are you doing? And he was like, oh, I'm doing management consulting project management based on someone's recommendation. And again, as soon as I could drop this sense of competition and open my heart, I saw that, oh, he's developing personal power, he's succeeding, he's changing, he's challenging himself, he's transforming. And I was inspired by that. And, you know, in 2005, I started meditating. First, you know, just like, I guess, on my own, right? Because we didn't have a sangha yet. And in 2006, around the summer solstice, the Hungarian sangha started. And I was really focusing on getting a job. And I was like, I have no idea what it means to be a project manager. I have no idea what management consulting is, but I'm inspired by my Sango friend, Satori. And I would like to do the same. And I was just meditating every day and preparing in my mind for that opportunity. And the market was pretty tough. So even back then, you know, I applied to like 400 jobs and I got one message back, no, we are not interested. So the job market was pretty tough back then. And about, around the summer solstice, Satori calls me and he was like, hey, there's a job at my place. There is a consultant who I'm working with and he's looking for a junior management consultant. And I was like, oh my God, this is exactly what I was looking for. And so he referred me to the CEO of this small consulting company. They gave me some download, how I could prepare. And I got a couple of interviews. I got into like, yeah, two interviews and two interviews later, I got the job. And this was all because I was like, I'm inspired by someone else in the sangha and I could open my heart and learn. And in a way I didn't even know how important this was until recently because, you know, a few of us, you know, especially, you know, Satori and Dakini, we always studied together and supported each other, but recently I just realized we never really had a mentor, right? So for us, this is what I call all-encompassing love, having love and an open heart for everybody, right? We could learn from each other, and that could allow us to develop ourselves without even having a mentor. We could go to each other with questions. But again, so when you open your heart to everyone, you can learn from everyone. Nowadays, of course, everyone has a mentor. But when you open your heart, you can learn from everyone and develop yourself tremendously.

0:53:07
So this is what I wanted to share today. Thank you so much, Raja. That was beautiful. And thank you to all the other teachers for providing beautiful teachings. I never had the honor of meeting Rama in the flesh, of course. But I remember an experience I had heard Samvara mention his wonderful teacher Rama, but it was all, you know, just in stories, I didn't have a personal connection. And one night I was driving my car through my neighborhood, it was nighttime, there was no other cars around and I was listening to a recording of one of Rama's talks. And in this recording, he was saying, you might be listening to this teaching, perhaps 20 years from when it was initially recorded. And it doesn't matter, he said. And at that moment, there was a stop sign. So I stopped at the stop sign. And Rama said, it doesn't matter how long ago this was because I'm with you right now. And I just remember I got chills and it was, you know, I don't know how long I stood at the stop sign, but it really felt like Rama was there right next to me in the passenger seat. And that was kind of my first experience of Rama. And I realized that when Samvara says these are living teachings, that is exactly what he meant. Even though Rama may not be here in his physical form, his teachings and his spirit are very much here and part of this lineage. And they're expressed through all of his enlightened students, you know, like Samvara and Shiva and Turiya, and through some of, or all of Samvara's students, all of us. And so all of these teachings and tools that Rama provided to his students, you know, the gift of karma yoga, studying business, meditation, and of course enlightenment. Samvara and his peers have bestowed these teachings to us as well. And so when we participate in these different practices that we have, they're really coming from this lineage, this long line of Buddhas, both living and ascended. So, you know, next time you're doing your day job or practicing yoga or martial arts or meditating, remember that you're not alone. And there are countless beings here with you, supporting you on your journey and providing you with everything you need. So I would like to conclude this teaching with a meditation. I would like to meditate with you all on the navel chakra. And I want you to focus on your own power, which is compounded by the power of this lineage, and the power of Rama, and the power of Samvara, and the power of every single one of you here, all of our sangha mates. You

0:57:07
of the Lord. Enlightenment exists within all things. All things are enlightenment. Enlightenment has always existed, exists right now, and will always exist. Enlightenment comes from meditation.

0:58:28
Clear your mind. Still your thoughts. Be absorbed in the sound, in music.

0:58:35
So, So Enlightenment is beyond all of this. Enlightenment is beyond all of these places. Everything here will come and go. Nothing remains except enlightenment.

1:00:58
So

1:01:00
the the the the Thank you, everyone, and thank you so much, Sanvara, for everything. And we will have some closing words from Sombaro. Thank you. Thank you very much. Wow, that's a beautiful teachings. It's really awesome to see Shiva. Really amazing. You tell he's in Santa Fe.

1:02:16
I'm all like, feel that Santa Fe energy coming through. I'm like, oh, that's really nice. And yeah, all his teachings were really beautiful. Thank you, Raja. Thank you, Palden Lung.

1:02:31
So, it came to me, just sitting there in the meditation, that I'm going to offer you a wonderful gift that Rama offered his students very often. It's called the wrathful teachings. So I'm going to bring wrathful teachings up, you know, starting now until the equinox transit. Wrathful teachings, great! So I was at Bodie Woods, and there was this gal, never talked to her before, and I had a one-on-one with her, and I just yelled at her. I was like, and then afterwards, she got all angry. And then she's like, she's like, you just yelled at me, and everything that you said was wrong. And I'm like, what about some practical teaching? And she's all, yeah, but it's all incorrect. And I'm like, so? I'm like, that's the trick of the raffle teacher, you don't like it. You know, like, was Marpa correct? Marpa's all, build it over here. He builds it, and then he goes, no, no, I said it was over there. You're incorrect. Exactly. That's the trick of the thing. So, um, and then you actually say, oh, he was correcting a bigger word. I'm gonna... But at first you're just like, ah! So, um, anyway, so I'm gonna, I'm going to offer the wrathful teachings. And, um, I'm really good at them. And they're subtle. And it's in the second country. And it's really miraculous. Anyway, so, you know, the Dharma unfolds in beautiful ways. So, this is a very wonderful... I give this present sometimes on Rama's birthday. I give this present sometimes on Rama's birthday. So, enjoy.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
