0:00:00
It's a really beautiful opportunity to be here with all of you today. It's a beautiful opportunity to be here with all of you today. So really, really happy to see you all, all your faces, and then also those on Zoom. We are connected. And so this weekend we'll begin this Shodan retreat. So the Shodan Mandala retreat is an opportunity for us to come together and look deeper into the teachings of the Mahamandala and where we dwell in Mahamandala together. So this will be a three-day event starting today, and then it'll go Saturday and Sunday. And tonight is very mellow, we're just going to do a welcome, Ashan will give a dharma talk and meditation, and then we'll give the first two assignments. And then Saturday, we'll have activities throughout the day with lots of breaks. And Sunday, we will also have activities throughout the day, and both nights we'll have a dinner. So it's going to be a lot of fun. So on your chairs, you will have received an agenda and some activity instructions, and a journal, and a pen. So the agenda will help you know what this weekend is going to look like, what the structure is, how many times you have backroom breaks, which is a lot, and also, you know, if you need to plan around dinner or anything like that, we have some breaks in the afternoon, a couple hours. The activity instructions will give you the guidance each day for the specific activities we'll do that are in alignment with the program, building the Shodan Mandala. So the activity instructions today have two exercises, and Colleen and I will walk you through that tonight. And the remote participants can do it on their own time as well. And you'll have all of these in case you want to do it later. So if you want to just drink some tea and relax tonight, you can try this again at a later time. So it's really up to you and what we want to create together in the same. So some logistics. We are here and we have an awesome amount of people. I think this is more than we've ever had. So we have four bathrooms available and they are marked with happy toilet signs. Some of them are personal bathrooms, so you might see a closed toilet sign at some point for that personal person to have their space. Okay, but just an FYI, there is a bathroom available in Monakai, which is out the door, down here to the right, and then through the door here. It also has a sign. There's another bathroom here, and there's a bathroom in the hallway, and there's a fourth one that is secret and hidden in the pantry in the kitchen. That's the adventure bathroom. Treasure hunt. Okay, so anyway, that's some logistics. We will also have food and beverages available. We have some gluten-free and vegetarian options. Food will be delivered. But if you have any specific concerns, you can talk to myself, Holly, or Creea, and we will be helping to facilitate the event. And many, many people have been helping to facilitate as well. So, very grateful for everyone here. I will have a little chime that I ring to signify the beginning or end of activities. We'll take breaks and we will enjoy our time here together. So, um, talk about the showdown Mandela. Um, so, is he here? He's coming. Okay. Yes, but please feel free to reach out to colleagues, Priya or myself with any questions over the course of the weekend. All right, thank you very much.

0:04:27
All right, so yeah, welcome to the first Shodan Retreat. So this is a very, very special time, special opportunity to be together. It's going to really go through three stages. And the first stage is what we're going to do tonight. And it is recognition of enlightenment. And the second stage is understanding that you're enlightened. And then the third stage is enlightenment beyond you. All of these three things are the same, but we're going to step through them step by step because that's the way that you have that recognition, realization. Recognition is what we're going to start with tonight. And the first, I guess, kind of most important thing is that we set an intention. Set an intention. What are we going to do here? What are we going to recognize enlightenment within us and beyond us. You know, recognition of enlightenment is knowing enlightenment is true. And then when there's the enlightenment of the self, this is what we, you know, would also call like the Atman, right? The understanding that enlightenment is within you. And then recognition of enlightenment even beyond the self is Brahman and that is all enlightenment. So we're on a journey of awakening. So I want you to be able to set your intent of awakening in this weekend where these three levels of awareness, of enlightenment, are what we're going to experience today, tomorrow,

0:07:06
and the next day.

0:07:10
I'm just going to sit here very silently for about 45 seconds and I want you to say, okay, I'm at this retreat, this beautiful time, this beautiful place with the greatest people in the world, what do I want to get out of this? Why did I show up? Even if I'm at home laying down in bed, I just woke up early in the morning. Why did you even open your eyes and click the Zoom button? But what do you want to get out of this retreat? So just take a moment, still your mind and and

0:08:04
Bring your your mind to your highest intent for this experience

0:08:07
You you

0:08:11
you Thank you. Okay, are we good? That's a lot of good intent. A lot of good intention out there. architected as a mandala. And all of the teachers who are going to be teaching over the next few days, they have the vision of the mandala. We got together, we talked through it, they reflected on it, you know, several sessions actually. And this is actually a mandala. And it's a really beautiful thing. That's why it's called the Mandala Retreat. And at the center of the mandala is the Buddha. And the Buddha is always the center of a mandala. And so in this mandala, I play that part. And then there's all sorts of teachings around this, and then all of you fit in the mandala as well. So, we are experiencing yet another experience of the mandala. But it's mandala where we're like really, really developing and experiencing. Mandalas are like alive. You know, when you're meditating and you're looking at the gold Kalachakra mandala, it

0:09:55
is so magical, so alive, it has so many dimensions.

0:12:05
So don't give up on that.

0:12:08
It's very, very magical. So we are in the Wanda retreat, and at the center is the Buddha. And it has to be, because there's a very, very advanced person that becomes enlightened without having another enlightened teacher to see. You know, Padmasambhava or something like that, right? He's like, I'm the self-born Buddha. I just showed up enlightened, right? So, stuff like that. That happens with those great great great beings. But for the rest of us, it's really necessary and also probably for Padmasambhava at some time, it was necessary for him to see an enlightened teacher, an enlightened being. So, you know, if you read books and hear people talk about enlightenment, it's almost like how people talk about, the Christians talk about Jesus, it's like, sounds nice. But if you were with Jesus, it'd probably be a much more radical awakening experience. You can read all these books, hear all the stuff, and still just get information and not realization. So an enlightened teacher to sit with you is that they say, this is enlightened, and then you go, all right, I've been put on notice. This is a real big deal. And then your mind and your heart start to open up for that. You start to understand what enlightenment is through an enlightened teacher.

0:14:12
And if there wasn't the enlightened teacher,

0:14:14
there's just nothing. You're just reading books, getting ideas. Could be some good books, but it would just give you ideas. So, yeah, with me, when I met Rama, I was like, I, somehow deep in me, I had a really strong regard for Buddhism and the enlightened one. It's just something I really knew deep down. When I saw him for the first time and I saw him teach, teaching, and the gold lights, the first time I started seeing the gold light, I was all, oh. I wasn't even warned that there was going to be gold lights. I didn't know it was going to happen. I just showed up and I'm like, I don't know all the details, but I know there's something so perfect, amazing, strong about this. It's something beyond description, something I can't explain. Something I know so deep in me that I don't know where it comes from. And I said, whatever this is, is the highest truth, the greatest perfection, the most elevated thing, and I haven't seen that before. And that's what I want to do. I want that. And that was me seeing an enlightened being. If I didn't have a great enlightened teacher show me that, I would have been shown, I would have seen in life all sorts of things, but not in language. So it takes initially seeing the teacher, not even their personality. You know, like the teacher has a way of talking, and you know, could be funny, or could be strict, or whatever, you know, like that's all surface stuff. But whatever the teacher's, you know, tonal is of working with people, an enlightened teacher brings the light and transforms the spirit of everyone and shows people, this is who you can be. There's a really famous little, I guess it's a picture that his artist who did all the art first stuff. It's similar to the Samadhi album, or it is the Samadhi album. It's done at the same time. And it's a picture of Rama sitting in gold and in black. And in the gold there's all this jewels and explosions of beautifulness and in the black it's also jewels of amazingness and explosions of beautifulness and it's a and there's a quote under it that Rama said and it's you are no I am I am who you will be I I guess you can say it the other way too. But like so what he's saying I'm enlightened and so can you And it's true, it's absolutely true

0:18:12
so

0:18:14
I'd like to begin with a Meditation on the recognition of enlightenment. And I'm going to just open a dimension of what we call the enlightenment teachings in a meditation. I'd like you to focus on your third eye. We're going to sit for one song and I'd like you to just look up here. And just beginning.

0:18:51
Alright, let's begin.

0:18:53
the

0:19:00
the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so So the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so So, the enlightened master is so

0:23:50
special. And it's true, but that, and it's good to make you go, yeah, that's cool. But no, that's in YouTube. So I always give a lot of martial arts analogies, but I'm going to give a chef analogy. So let's say you're an OK chef. You're working in a kitchen. And then some new chef comes in and makes the most amazing, delicious thing that everyone loves and they go all crazy about. And you're like, oh, wow. When you try it, you're like, I'm like everybody else. It's the best thing in the world. I don't know how you make this. And then that new chef is like, here's how you make it. That's pretty much it. Um, it's, you know, we, it is something where you have to have a lot of attention and focus and stuff, but it's not impossible. And you don't have to sit there and go, Oh, this chef makes this one thing. It's impossible for me to make it.

0:25:08
It's never happening for me.

0:25:10
I cannot ever make it. I'm talking to Sheridan, sorry. So, I'm like, yeah, that's how it is. It's like, there could be this wonderful thing that you've never heard of, but then, you could learn how to do that. Absolutely, just focus on it and then you can own that recipe. The Dharma is a bunch of recipes of enlightenment. It's good food, here they are, right? And when you come across an enlightened person, they got, they're a good chef and they have a lot of recipes. And they're like, let me, now let me teach you how to do it. And then you can do it. So we tend to, once we see a Buddha or an enlightened being, we tend to say, Oh, they're so great. They're so amazing. And I'm not that. That's something that immediately happens when you meet an enlightened teacher. You immediately say, well, they're great and I suck. I mean, you kind of have to do that. You have to have a little bit of recognition that the ego is not enlightened. And that's good in the beginning. But then as you go along, what tends to happen in a spiritual community is people say, they keep going that way. They go, wait, I had a recognition that I wasn't happy and that the guru was doing something right. And then people tend to say, well, then let's keep going that direction. The guru is better and I'm worse. The guru is better and better and I'm worse and worse. And that's not true. It's good to have an initial understanding that who I am and what I'm not there. That's okay, that's a good understanding. But then from there, it should be all the things of yoga, meditation, mindfulness, compassion bring you up. And you have to recognize that as very strong yogis that it brings you up. It brings you to the same thing that you see the enlightenment that you see is the enlightenment who you are it's always been that way but it's something that the self goes through a game the self first sees the guru and goes oh my god, oh, it's amazing. And then the self goes, that guru is a god. And then the self says, I'm not a god. I'm not a god. And then the self just keeps going through But the truth is that the guru, the Buddha, is just showing the truth of who you are. And if you could see something good about the guru, the Buddha, it means that you connect with that and that is in you it's the self that keeps making big grandiose ideas about the guru it's like oh but the guru has blonde hair and is really tall the guru is so special He drives a Mercedes. Yeah, stuff like that. Yeah, this is the SC1 and the SC2. The SC1s and SC2s got into this flaw where they're like, this is the only definition of enlightenment, which is super funny to me because coming from thousands of years of Asians being enlightened, And then all of a sudden they're like, oh no, the definition of enlightenment is there's one tall white guy who looks like Big Bird. And I was like, wow. Anyway, yeah, don't do that. Recognize that any enlightenment that you see from me is me telling you.

0:30:10
You're like whoa

0:30:12
It's not to separate you from enlightenment and say I'm Something different it's for me to say that's who you are It's not you go. Whoa he did something and But that's why it's so cool wouldn't you know now that you guys are teaching go to the people that doing power trips We're going to the desert teaching together doing things like this. There's there's gonna be many teachers over this experience it is saying no no you are if you see enlightenment in me I it's because I'm expressing your true nature people get into this thing with the No, no, no, no, no, the teacher's not separate. Like, I don't know how to explain it. My job is not to explain it.

0:31:18
Okay, no.

0:31:19
My job is to explain it. When a teacher expresses something, they teach it to you. Okay, going back to martial arts. Martial arts teacher could be showing you a block or punch and you're like, whoa, they are so amazing and strong. But what they teach you, you know, and then you figure it out and you say, oh, I am stronger because of that teaching. I don't have to sit there and say, oh, sensei, you're the best sensei in the world. I would just be subjected to nothing. Okay, but no, it's like, it gives you information that makes you stronger, elevated. We don't need to, we don't need to say, I'm going to be, I'm going to be such a devotee to my sensei, that if I get in a fight, I'll stop fighting and just go, my sensei is the best. My sensei could do everything. Right? No, that's why martial arts is good. Because it's... Yeah, that sensei is good. And you don't just go, Oh, your punch is so good I can't ever learn it. No, you say, I'll try to learn it. Oh, well, it works a little bit. And then you say, now I can do it. Now if someone tries to kill me or my friend, I can do a jiu-jitsu on them. See what I mean? But we've built up these big, big spiritual images. So cooking, commercial arts are much better ways of looking at spirituality. So, if you look at the enlightened teacher, who's in the dojo or in the kitchen, there's a leader. There's a powerful leader. But that powerful leader isn't, like, let's look at the kitchen. Like a three Michelin star kitchen, there's a powerful leader. leader and they're creating everyone around them to be exceptional. The next, you know, three Michelin star chef, and then they're creating the next group and then the next group is the customers that, you know, they're, they're, they're just bringing out the best. Three Michelin star restaurant, bringing out the best. They're just bringing out better, better, higher, higher, expanding all the ripples. So when we have all these ideas of the guru is a god, that's not true. The guru is just enlightened and everything that the guru does is just to show you your enlightenment.

0:34:26
And we say,

0:34:27
okay, now this is where we're gonna make a shift. Now that we went into that, now the next recognition of enlightenment is where we're gonna go to today and tomorrow. This is really important though. It's good to say this is a great chef, it's great sensei, it's great guru and work with them properly and if you work with them properly you're gonna be good at that stuff. But when you become enlightened, it feels really nice. It's really bright and beautiful. It's the best thing. But it's actually the most normal thing. It's the most basic thing. It's the most fundamental thing of existence. It is. That's the truth. And the reason why I've had so many students have moksha and primary enlightenment and they say, oh my god, this happened. Me too, when I became enlightened, it seemed like a big deal to is accustomed to a horrible condition of limitation. So you're like all, everything sucks. It's like if you were in prison, prison, prison, prison, prison, and then someone puts you up on top of Mount Tam or Mauna Loa, and you're like, I'm free. I'm free. But guess what? Being on Mount Tam or Mauna Loa, it's just normal. I mean like if you go there, it's a normal place to be. Now if you're in prison, it's not normal. So that's why when you have your liberation moment, you're saying, I am free of that self that keeps me in prison that doesn't let me go to the great places. And I can go to any great place if I'm free. Any great place on the planet. None of you are in prison. None of you are in jail. You can go to any great place on the planet. And go to Hawaii and look at the ocean. Most beautiful place in the world to me. So many places of power, go up to Mauna Kea, go up to Mauna Loa, go down to Volcanoes National Park, go down to places of refuge, so many amazing things. You're free to do it. stuck and troubled and it's sad but everyone brings their own prison, their own shackles and they shackle themselves and even though you can go and stand before the Grand Canyon focus and you just go, oh I'm in the most amazing place in the world but oh whatever okay so if if you have the You can understand the bigger picture where everything that enlightenment is, is absolutely already within you. And that all that happens is that we start to add things to it. We add what we call mental modification. We add to the mind. And that's where trouble starts. So as a very... I mean, we all started out as a very um... perfect being and then we started getting into karma. Now karma starts to give us mental modifications. This is the place where you start to go out and to experience the trouble and some scars karma and difficulty. So all we have to do is drop all that. We don't have to add to it. When people think about being enlightened they say, I know who I am and I want to add something to it, like a Christmas tree. Let's put a star on top of the Christmas tree, and that will be enlightenment. It makes the Christmas tree better. But it doesn't solve you, you know, solve suffering. We want to add to it. do that we think is good is trying to solve something to make a better condition to make our spirit happy. And it could be I want a car, I want a better job, you know, I want a girlfriend or boyfriend, I want something, I want this, I want that. And all those things that you want is your spirit saying I want to fix something, I want to get something more. And you think it'll make you happy, but here's the greatest truth of reality Your spirit as it is is the greatest happiness It doesn't need anything It's only when you don't Understand your spirit. You're not spiritually awakened where you start to say I need something else, I need something else and then to be happy. And your being as it is, is the greatest happiness, the greatest peace, the greatest expansion of consciousness. So we we say I want something. I want something. And anytime that you want you're always drawn away from who you are. We have to learn to drop wanting and accept a being. So, it's like, I'm going to give you an analogy. An actor. So, you can watch some actor play some big role, be intense and all this stuff, but it's a person playing a role. And when you watch it, you go, wow, I'm into that role.

0:42:06
I get it.

0:42:07
Wow. And then that actor actually really gets into it too. They actually express all those emotions. To be a great actor, you have to move your assemblage point to that place. And that's a real place, an actual place of consciousness. Great actors, they don't just go, I am playing a role, and here's what I'm telling you. You know, like, that never sells you, right? Like, the reason we love good movies and stuff is because this, the actor becomes the part, right? So, let's say there's this guy named John Smith. And he starts to learn and become a production of Macbeth. So, Rama had this one year where he taught us this thing called the literature of enlightenment. And because he's an English PhD and he wrote his PhD, what do you call it? Dissertation on Shakespeare's poems and stuff. And he was like, he's like, I'm a, I'm literally a PhD in Shakespeare, and I'm going to teach you guys, I have so much tone out here, but I'm going to, I'm going to teach you guys enlightenment through it. And I was like, oh, okay. So, he had us read some stuff, and I was like, oh, now our, what, oh, man, I lost it. Anyway, but I read every book, and I went to all of his teachings. But let's say, you know, some actors playing Macbeth, actor's name is John Smith and he's playing Macbeth and John Smith makes like $40,000 a year and like just is like some guy but he's really into acting. Like he has his own like, who he is. Now when he becomes Macbeth, oh man, all of a sudden, he's in the Scottish play. He becomes the king of Scotland, who got there by killing somebody, and it's just a terrible place, and all troubled by ghosts and everything. And so he's like, oh, I had ambition and I killed and murdered to get my power. And then I, oh, terrible things happened and I was all troubled. And then in the end, I thought I was going to get off, but then I got killed.

0:44:41
That's my.

0:44:42
Yeah, anyway. So, so, yeah, that, but that's, that's true. But when he went through that two and a half hour play, this John Smith who's like, oh, man, I better not get a Frappuccino because it's a little expensive, so I'll just get like an iced coffee. He goes from whoever he was, he totally goes into a part. So here's the thing. The John Smith also is added to his Buddha nature. And even from his John Smithness, he adds this whole other thing on top of it called Macbeth. And he's sitting there on stage going, ah!

0:45:37
Ah!

0:45:40
And a good actor feels it, right? They move their assemblage point into it. So the thing is that you all have been just sitting there going, oh, what? Like a social conditioning, karma of all people and your own, you know, weaknesses and you're all, and you're all, I'm a character that I'm playing called me. And you can hear that character. And this is why we learned the caretaker awareness, caretakers, because a caretaker's awareness is a very strong focus walking you out of being stuck on a roll. It's like, I'm stuck on a roll, here's a better roll. There's a better roll, there's a better roll. There's a better roll. Anyway, so yeah, but this is true. The whole role that the actor has is something that they go emotionally into, they move their assemblage point into, and you could ask great actors, they say, I become that, I am that, I live that. And that shows the ability for them to change from one person to another, that they're not actually fixed in who they are. But it's also trouble. And that's that's what everybody is. Everybody is a perfect being who's been given a role. Just like actors play a role for whatever reason. I want something, I want to get famous. I'm going to get money, whatever. I'm going to play that role. Everybody's playing a role. And so what we have to understand is that enlightenment is just dropping the role. Just being the actor. I mean, you can stop acting. And just being. Stop acting, start being. And it's just, there's no role anymore. There's just being. There's just who you are. And when you are who you are, and you're not caught up in some race and some drama, some difficulty, then you're free. And then you realize, you know, true happiness. Because when you get into those roles, you get all confused. Like, roles are usually trouble, like egos. So, the first Batman movie was... I forgot who was Batman, but Michael Keaton, great actor. Anyway, he's Batman. And then the Joker was Jack Nicholson, right?

0:49:04
Nicholson.

0:49:05
Nicholson.

0:49:06
Good? Oh yeah, I'm really into both. And that was kind of a goofy movie. Like it was like a little silly and goofy. And I was like, in that movie, the Joker didn't seem so intense. He seemed like kind of a comedian goofball. And then in later movies, it seemed like the Joker got more fucking crazy and intense. He went more fucking crazy and intense, and then he fucking just got crazy at the last one.

0:49:40
Just crazy.

0:49:41
I don't know. I actually did Bird of Prey, he was pretty intense too. Anyway, so, maybe after like 10 years, Keith Ledger was playing the Joker in a more intense version, a less comedic version of Batman. Batman and Jack Nicholson went over to him and he's like, this is a really intense role. And he's like, I kind of got to play a little bit more. And he's like, but you're in the world of the Black Knight, you're his nemesis, the Joker. And he was like, this is a really intense role. And he's like, you know, be careful. And so he was, he's like warning him, when you move your assemblage point into that thing, it's, it can make you crazy. Anyway, but Heath Ledger did a really good job, but he also died on that movie. You know, he, he was trying, he couldn't get enough sleep, he was trying to get up the next day to do the work and he took some sleep meds, just took too many and he died. And it's because he was putting himself into a position of awareness that had trouble. This is what egos do. Egos put themselves into so much trouble and difficulty and it's because, you know, we're trying to do whatever we're trying to do. But when you're trying to do anything and you're in some part, you're in some weird way that causes trouble and if you just let go of trouble and just be, it's much, much better. So an actor becomes their part. They become their part. And an ego becomes the self. Both are not true. The actor is not their role and you are not your ego. It's like there was that one actor who was in that volleyball scene in Maverick, no not Maverick just Top Gun in the 80s, right? So there was that actor in the volleyball scene, it's like a famous scene, and then that actor just became that part so much. And then when you see that actor like 15 years later in Castaway playing Wilson, it's the same way. The self, if it believes its role, becomes that role. You know, another interesting one. So, Jim Carrey, when he played, there's a great movie that we've all watched, Man on the Moon, right? Yeah. When he played that, the whole time that he was doing that, he actually let go of his self and he went into the role. He moved to this British point, to this role of Andy Kaufman, a really mercurial, you know, comedian. But he was like, for the eight months or whatever he was doing that the movie, he was like, I wasn't me anymore. I was totally him all the time. And then he would act through him and he would just be him. And then Jim Carrey afterwards, he was like, it's kind of hard to come back. I spent, you know, eight months being this other person's assemblage point. So, who you are can change. That's why we have, you know, like this focus on acting, but you also can't get stuck. You can get stuck, you know, like going into one person's ego assemblage point and then just get stuck there like Wilson. So you got to be fluid. You have to actually let go. More than an actor, I would give an analogy of a movie. So we, moving on from actors. at the movies and you say what is enlightenment? I'll say it is the screen. I say this because a lot of a lot of showdowns come to me and say I'm trying so hard and meditating really hard and why why why don't I have enlightenment? I said, because you're expecting something. The funny thing about enlightenment is, so you're expecting to have an experience, and enlightenment isn't an experience. You're expecting that you're going to sit, you're going to do something, and something's going to happen. In enlightenment, nothing happens. You expect something to happen. You expect to get somewhere. You expect to get high. You expect something. Even past wanting, you're expecting. And guess what? There's none of that. You don't get anything. You don't get a high. You don't achieve anything. It's not an achievement. It is just, in a movie theater, the screen. So I'm like, look at the screen. And if that screen itself shows everything in life, everything in life can be seen through that screen. You can play anything. You can play a drama, sci-fi, horror, monkeys, beautiful view. You know, you can show anything on that screen and everything, actually everything will come through that screen as projections. But without that screen, you wouldn't see anything. It is the screen that is your awareness and the screen itself is the way that you can see anything and everything in the world and universe. It is because there's screen. Because you have awareness, you can be aware. Because you have awareness, you can see this. Because you have awareness, you can see that. Because of awareness, you can see good, you can see bad. But the main thing, which is enlightenment, is actually just your awareness. So if you reside in awareness that's enlightenment that's the truth. But what people do is they say oh there's pretty big spaceships oh well that girl totally yelled at that guy oh this is funny. Oh, that is scary. We're watching what's on the screen and getting caught up in it. And everything will be played out on the screen forever. The illusions will just keep coming along. And you have to have the recognition that you're not the movie. You're the screen. And the screen is where everything comes from, where everything can be held. And the screen is ecstatic, enlightened consciousness. Once you recognize it, because you might be looking for a movie, you're like, I need to see a good movie that's going to make me happy. Right? But the screen is a metaphor, is where all the happiness comes from. Like it's where every movie comes from. Every movie that can ever be seen is because there's the screen itself. And therefore, the screen, but then if you're watching like a movie, you're all, oh, I think this is a good movie, but I don't like this. And also, you know, so you're getting caught up in the projections, when you're caught up in the karma and the self or the limited view, then you start to say, why am I not enlightened? Oh, because of this, because of that, because of ego. And everything that you're describing is in a movie that you're watching. It's not the screen itself, it's stuff that you're seeing on the screen. So you're like, oh, I know what will fix my problem. If we could get rid of this character. She's terrible. And she's the reason I can't see the screen. And so, even if you have the power, which you 99% of the time don't, have the power to remove that character from the story, still more story. So when you think, I need to get rid of my ego, you know what I'm going to do? Get rid of my ego. What's going to happen is, even if you luckily get to get rid of your ego, what you're going to find yourself with is more ego. You're not free from trying to get rid of your ego. A lot of the ways that you guys think about becoming enlightened is trying to get rid of something in a movie. And it's a fatal dilemma. It just doesn't work. The thing that we have to do is just recognize our awareness. That we're the screen, not Illusions come and go. Illusion, you can never stop illusion. You can't. You just have to be detached from illusion. Stopping illusion would be a fool's errand. But just let illusion play like all the movies, all the films, they can all play. Everything in the universe plays. It's called Lila. And it can be called trouble, or just detached from it, enlightened play. So, I'd like to bring your attention to when you were a little kid? You were playing, you know, maybe you had some painful experience, going to school, sports, you know, think about the things that you were a little kid, doing whatever you're doing, digging in dirt, riding a bike, talking to people, having trouble with your family, whatever you did, but look at your awareness. Now, you're much more trained in martial arts, scuba, career, and so now you have a lot more training, so you know a lot more things. But let's take a look at the consciousness, the awareness of that awareness principle of life. When you were 12, it's the same as now. You were 12 and you're all like, you know, you didn't know a lot of stuff, but the way that you looked at life, you're like, I see life. I am aware. I am equally aware as 12 as now, in terms of awareness. Going through the karmas of self, don't expose self. You knowing absolutely nothing and then going through a discipline and learning everything actually doesn't change the fundamental principle of awareness. Awareness was always there just the same. And in our study we learn a lot of things, martial arts and jobs and all sorts of stuff, right? We learn, but the thing that's always been there is awareness. And awareness is never diminished, it never suffers, it just is the screen. So I'd like to do a meditation. I'd like you to draw your mind into that timeless truth. Like I can ask you, are you aware? Like right now? You probably all, yeah. I mean like are you unaware? You're like, I mean some people go into like, oh, little drifts. But like in general, it's like, are you aware right now? If you say, let me check, yes, I'm aware. And then I would say, how do you know? It's the most obvious thing I am aware how can I not be And that's That's that's that's enlightened It is that you are But but not just that you are it is that you are aware, but you are that awareness You're that that that thing that is the most obvious thing about being. And when we stop getting caught up in all sorts of things, we see that that thing is eternal, endless. That's who we really are. I'd like to do a meditation with you, soft focus, looking third eye. And we're going to just bring our minds to the moment, to this awareness, to this obvious fact that we are aware and that this awareness is who we are. No movies, just the screen, just awareness.

1:06:29
Just Awareness. Let's begin. so So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So you So the the the the the the the Thank you. So I know I tried to really contain it for a long time, but enlightenment is loose. I was observing that when a lot of Shodons became liberated and then you know there's a few ST-5s who became liberated and I was like oh how can that happen? There aren't even Shodons. I didn't expect that. but I'm like, oh, enlightenment's loose. It happens. So, and that's a really good thing. And it means that you are doing the right job because if there's just a Buddha and there's a bunch of students, some people might get enlightened, but enlightenment doesn't get loose. and there's a bunch of students, some people might get enlightened, but enlightenment doesn't get loose. But when there's a big network of enlightened students, shodan, people who are at the highest level of empowerment of enlightenment, then enlightenment gets loose. Then you can start seeing people show up and go, whoops! And, you know, one of the best stories is Bahia. I mean, not this one, the other one, the Buddha's Bahia. He showed up for one teaching. Buddha gave a teaching. He became enlightened.

1:10:16
And then there's all these like stream runners sitting there going, hey. We've been here for like 20 years with you. And we're only like... and why is he all of a sudden enlightened? We heard what you said. I heard what you said. And, um... Sorry. Good reference. And Buddha's like, yes, enlightenment's just loose. But what it is, is there's so many, it becomes a compounded energy of a Sangha, even more than a Buddha. Buddha could sit there and talk to a lot of people and then, little by little. But when there's a Sangha, a true Sangha, who everyone is actually working on a pathway to enlightenment, we have some enlightened ones, we have some ones who are not enlightened yet, but it is really coming from the Shodons. We have a really strong network of enlightenment and then it's possible for, you know, an ST5 to actually have a moksha. So I'm like, whoa. So that happened with Buddha's school? It absolutely didn't happen with Rama's school. Because none of us were enlightened. We're all like all, Oh, only Rama's view. And I hate everybody else. Anyway, so this is a very good thing. Now, as long as the ST5s who become liberated become showdowns, they have to do all that work to become showdowns. I'm okay with that. If I see a mistake, I will close doors and then there will be no showdowns. I mean, there will be no ST5s who are not showdowns who become liberated. I don't want someone to come here and get randomly liberated because they're around this really amazing thing and then they go off and go sideways. I won't let that happen. I'll let it happen once. So right now, like the way that we're teaching, really strong. And it's so important if, you know, there's ST5s that get into higher states of consciousness, we have to make sure that we're bringing them into the Shodan process. They have to get strong, lifted up, more powerful. Because I told you, right, you know, you might become enlightened and be like, oh, that's all I need to do. And now I'm going to go walk across the street and get hit by a car. You know, it's because they could be unimpeccable in attention. They might be liberated, but that's why I say being impeccable in the Dharma is more important than personal enlightenment. If they become enlightened, great, but we have to make sure that we're supporting them to become a very impeccable shodan. Yeah, and just becoming personally enlightened, I know we all say, yeah, we're on the path to be enlightened, but actually you should be on the path to perfect the Dharma. That's actually more important because a lot of people get enlightened and they go into this enlightened ego mode and they're like, I don't know, now I think my thoughts are important. And you know, they might have a point or something, but it's actually more important to say, I want to perfect the Dharma, then I'm enlightened now, I know better. That's where we get enlightened egos. There's always a higher enlightenment to get to. And, you know, unless you're you know, super, super happy, not bothered by anything, walking on water, you know, the usual things, then maybe you should, you know, continue to like try to get higher. Yeah, someone was asking me, they're like I see the Arhans but some of them are kind of jerks. I'm like yeah, and then they're all, why? Because I see, you know, like the SD2s were enlightened, they were like, they were like something special. And then I look at someone who's being a jerk and I'm like, what, is that enlightenment? And I'm like, yeah, it's a mind. But it's, it's all about impeccability. It's all about dharma the dharma you know Buddha or Rama you know or great enlightened beings they use their enlightened insight not just go wow that's cool now I'm that and then I'm just gonna chill until I get pissed off right they say I have enlightened insight and now I'm gonna use it to see deeper to take all the karmas of my life and lift them up, I'm going to try to do better. That's impeccability in enlightenment. You've got to do better, you've got to move forward. Enlightenment isn't just going, oh got it, I'm chill. No, you have to be more impeccable, stronger, more focused, more loving, a greater yoga, I mean greater yogi, and also greater sangha member, so greater friend to everyone in your sangha. Do you have trouble with people in your sangha, you got trouble in your mind. You gotta like practice the dharma. You have to be the best spiritual friend to everyone. So yeah, don't just say I got, I had some you know, moksha and now I'm happy and say that's where I'm at. No, no, no. That's the beginning. You got to keep going. And then it gets bigger and brighter. And that's what's going to lead into tomorrow. But what I'd like to do is I'd like to have one last meditation with you. But maybe we Yeah, just a little break. Five minutes? Okay, five minute break. I want you to do just a little meditation. We're going to sit for two songs, and we're just going to have a closed eye, focus on the third eye, and this is something where I just want you to relax. Just relax and chill. Don't try so hard. And just be. After this last teaching, it directs your, even if you're still in the movie, it directs your mind to something very deep. And sometimes you just have to not try and just let it be. So let's just sit. It's gonna be two songs. It's about 20 minutes long. And just soft focus on the third eye. Let's begin. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started.

1:19:57
the the the the So the the the the So, So the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So so So so the the the So And now, the final battle begins. to the next. you so you So the the the So, so So So so so so so so so so So you Very beautiful meditation. Really strong. brings you to a place of Awareness beyond the story awareness beyond the story So if you have like I think this I am this and all these definitions in this meditation I want you to just be able to go beyond that idea and and also

1:34:34
going forward, don't have this definition of self. Be open to everything in the teachings. Okay, thank you so much. Everyone here, you've got to see Bronze Age. Isn't that beautiful? Yeah, we get that every day. For you for traveling here. To be able to look over the ocean and see that just gorgeous luminosity. So special.

1:40:30
So thank you guys so much.

1:40:32
It's really nice.

1:40:34
Very strong and important teaching. And then tomorrow it goes more. Yeah.

1:40:43
So thank you. Be well. Oh, yes. Who's next? This is gonna be short. We have two short exercises until tomorrow morning. So we're going to lock in our intent now. So let's come back to the physical and find our journals. Everybody should have a journal on their chair. And if you're on Zoom, please grab some pen and paper. Not your iPhone or your computer, but some pen and paper. And let's come back to what Ajahn said in the beginning about setting intent. So let's write down our intent for the weekend, our highest intent for enlightenment for this weekend. So we wanna do this together, but write your own intent for enlightenment, your own intent for this weekend for enlightenment. And we're just going to spend a few minutes on this. So come back to your body a little bit, if you want. And then let's write, we're going to play a short song about four or five minutes long just you know for some ambiance for some music and let's together lock in our intent for this weekend and also this way we connect the second attention with the first attention right and when we actually use a pen and paper our brain we use a different part of our brain even than when we type on the computer or the iPhone, so we're going to do that together now. Okay? Alright, just for a few minutes. And if you have more to write later, please write. We're going to do a bunch of writing during the weekend, so write your words. Write your impressions, your ideas, your thoughts.

1:43:10
It'll be good.

1:43:12
Okay? Okay. you you the the the the you you so so so so Thank you very much. So our next topic is Shorin. Thank you, Kali. So as part of this program, we will be doing exercises that allow us to integrate the teachings and meditations in all ways. So we are doing it in waking and we will also be doing it as we sleep. So every night there will be a writing exercise and a dreaming exercise. And if you're not a typical dreamer, this is the way it's processed. And we can connect to it whether we remember our dreams or not. So we will spend a little bit of time, just about three minutes, focusing on our third

1:45:33
eye and focusing on our dream question.

1:48:26
And the beautiful thing about the question

1:48:28
is that it doesn't need an answer. You don't need to define what it should be or have an expectation. But simply we will focus on a question as you go to sleep. So that is your assignment, is to focus on your third eye and meditate on a question as you're going into sleep. And then you may have a dream or you may not remember your dreams, but the next morning you take your journal out and you write down whatever you remember. And this might be explicit, perhaps if you are a lucid dreamer, you may enter a lucid dream, in which case you have an opportunity to ask the dream the question. And see how it responds. You may have a normal dream, but perhaps it'll be processing this question. Or you may not remember your dream at all, and you may just wake up with a feeling, a thought, or an energy. And just simply write down whatever you remember. Perhaps it's simply a colour. All you remember is green. So, this is a way to work with these teachings, integrate them in our conscious and subconscious minds. So the question for tonight is, what are the infinite possibilities? Can you say it again, loud? What are the infinite possibilities for my being? And you don't have to write this down. You can. It's actually in your exercises. It's on the exercise sheet for you. Okay. But another way to think of this is what is the highest, most unified expression of enlightenment? And we don't have to define it. It's just simply focusing on the question and the answers will come. And they may not come the next morning, they may come the next week, but it's a way to integrate this into many, many layers of consciousness. So we'll spend three minutes focusing on our third eye and meditating on this question in preparation for our dream work today. So consider the question, what are the infinite possibilities for my being? And focus on the third eye.

1:50:50
And let's begin. so you you Thank you. So that wraps up tonight.

1:54:28
It's really beautiful seeing you all. And we look forward to seeing you tomorrow.

1:54:32
Be well.

1:54:33
And sweet dreams.

1:54:35
What time can you arrive here tomorrow?

1:54:37
So the All Song of Satsang begins at 7.

1:54:40
And it will be an hour and the Shodan Satsang will begin

1:54:54
at 8.30.

1:54:55
Can we get there at like 6.50 or like 6.30?

1:55:01
Either is fine. Yeah, whenever works for you to settle in.

1:55:06
I have a question, sorry. Yeah.

1:55:08
Is the coffee, croissants, and muffins going to be available before it's packed? Oh yeah.

1:55:12
Oh yeah.

1:55:13
Yeah, I'm going to check with the website. Yes. I'm going to check with the website. I'm going to check with the website. Yeah.

1:55:21
Yes, coffee, muffins, and croissants, and some other healthy snacks will be available at 6.30. All right. 6.30 croissant time.

1:55:34
All right.

1:55:35
Thank you.

1:55:35
Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone.

1:55:36
on time. All right. Thank you, everyone.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
