0:00:00
Welcome, welcome everybody. Okay, we are going to start with a one song meditation. This is going to be a meditation on the third eye. Okay, let's begin.

0:00:16
the the the the the the the so So So So. So. So So, So. Oh, So So So So You're a good man, you're a good man You're a good man, you're a good man You're a good man, you're a good man You're a good man, you're a good man You're a good man, you're a good man You're a good man, you're a good man You're a good man, you're a good man you you There, I'm back. I was like, yeah, somehow I turned invisible.

0:09:15
And then it said, it said, my old name. My old name.

0:09:22
And it's like, what?

0:09:23
That's not my name. It should say Ajan. And it's like, what is this? This is like my old name. It's like in Harry Potter, you know, he who shall not be named. So it shouldn't say Sambara, it should say Voldemort. Okay, anyway, um, I feel like I'm talking down to you. We're on the same level. All right. Beautiful.

0:10:12
So,

0:10:16
what I'd like to talk about is some important things after we, you know, are returning from the solstice. This is important for shodans. So I want shodans to be very clear on your role in the sangha. So shodans are black belts in a karate dojo. Whatever degree black belt, but you're the leaders. You are the ones that people look to, to say, this is the standard. So a Shodan has to understand the minimal performance requirements to be in the dojo. Now, there's a lot of leeway in the school. There's a lot of things that you can do, a lot of things that you can focus on. There's many aspects of the school, but there are minimal performance requirements of a shodan. And it's really important for you to be very clear on it, because you can't be in the school and say, I'm doing it the way I want. No, there's minimal performance requirements. And they're kind of simple. It's not that big of a deal. But it's really important that you understand it. Because if you don't have, like in any dojo or any spiritual school. If you don't have the minimum performance requirements, the minimum requirements down, then you don't have a school, there's no integrity. It's like if you wanted to create a zoo, right? If you want a zoo, you have to have like at least one grizzly, maybe two polars, and then maybe three pandas and then that is the bare minimum for a zoo. I can't hear you guys laughing. Wait, okay, good. The bare minimum. The bare essentials. So for showdowns in the school, it's not that difficult. You're all, you know, you know, capable beings. But there's one big thing in this school. I mean, there's only four requirements. But there's one big thing. It is one, pay tuition. is strengthening the virtue of giving to your spiritual community and to your guru. So, gotta pay tuition. If you don't pay tuition, then there's the door. That means you're not that interested. My teacher charged a higher tuition than I'm charging you guys. And if you're not, you know, like, it's not in you. If you have a problem with tuition, you need to like resolve it or just go, just leave. You don't need to be here. I don't want to be around people who don't want to pay tuition. I paid tuition to my teacher super selflessly. I don't, I mean, it's not a big deal to me. It's like, I saw that I got so much, my career, to be able to have that money to pay him. And I was just like, okay. And more than my career, the spiritual teachings. So yeah, tuition wasn't a problem for me. If it's a problem for you, I don't want people to be here if they have a problem. You don't have to be here if you have a problem with tuition. I would really rather have a whole bunch of people who are super happy to pay it than people who are disgruntled about it. If you're disgruntled, you need to check yourself and say, what did I get out of this school? And if you don't wanna pay tuition, I don't want you to be here at all. I don't want you to be disgruntled. I don't want you to be forced into giving something you don't wanna give. Then leave, go somewhere else. There's a lot of cheaper spiritual schools out there. YouTube is free. Anyway, so tuition. That's a minimum requirement. If you don't get it, then you don't get it, but tuition is a minimum requirement. If you don't want to do tuition as a showdown, you are in the wrong place. You messed up. You're in the wrong place. Leave. Okay, so one, tuition. Two, attend my satsangs. If it's a satsang that is all satsang, all satsang that's satsang, attend it. If it's a Shodan or Arhat Satsang and you qualify, then attend it. That's it, just see my teachings. Might be once a month, might be once a quarter, might be twice a month. Attend my satsangs. You're in my school, you are my student, attend my satsangs. Just see what is going on, keep up with it. It's not that big of a deal. If you miss it, there's recordings, which is okay. Then do my assignments. I don't give many assignments, right? I give a book, like, I gave a book like three months ago, four months ago. And then what was the other book that I gave? It was like two years ago. Like I've been really not pushing assignments. I give one writing assignment in like the last five, six, seven, eight years. So once in a while, I'll tell you, read a book, watch a movie, do a writing assignment. It's not that often. I'm not really demanding, but when I give an assignment, do it. And then the last requirement for Shodan is to be impeccable in your yoga. Now, maybe your yoga is participating in the Sangha org.

0:17:20
Maybe your yoga is trying to launch a new company.

0:17:23
Whatever you do, maybe your yoga is, you know, I don't know, I'm the scuba instructor of the Sangha or something like that. Whatever it is, your interaction in the Sangha in the in the in the yoga has to be impeccable. Shodans have to be impeccable. Now it's really good to know the minimum because the minimum tells you oh I expect the whole you have to do all this, right? Because if you're like, because your minimum might be less than my minimum. My minimum might be here. Like I'm telling you, you have to be impeccable as a yogi. And you have to be active in Sangha org or yoga. You have to be in the Sangha active, impeccable. You might be like, well I'm gonna do my own thing and like play computer games as yoga. I'm like no that's not actually in the Sangha unless you create your own console and start selling it. Right, so as a yoga. Yeah, so it's important to understand what the minimums are so that you do at least that, but then that means that you get the maximum out of it. It's like there was this old man with no legs, very old man, very no legs. Then he died. And before he died, he said to his son, I just want you to, you know, do a nice obituary for me. And his son's like, okay, dad. And then his dad passed his wife. And then he goes over to the newspaper and he says, hey, I need you to do an obituary for my father. And they say, okay, no problem. Absolutely, happy to do it. It's $5 per word? And he goes, okay, let's just say, um, Louis dead. He's like, there we go. That's an obituary. And then the newspaper says to him, that's cool, but we have a five word minimum. And he's like, oh, okay, okay.

0:20:04
Then he goes,

0:20:05
Louis dead wheelchair for sale.

0:20:10
Get it?

0:20:10
That's the minimum. And that's what he gets out of it, the maximum. I know, it's ridiculous. So, it's important for showdowns to know the minimum. You know, all you have to do, you know, is pay tuition. That's your homage to your school. So, it shows a strong commitment. And then, attend your teacher's teachings. And then, you just have to do the assignments whenever they come up. I only have assignments that follow Dharma, so they don't come up, like, all the time. But when I give an assignment, it's a very strong assignment. It means something. A book, a movie, a writing assignment. And then the most essential aspect of a shodan is that a shodan is impeccable. Impeccable in their work. Impeccable in the Sangha in every aspect of the Sangha you're in the org you're doing yoga you're doing martial arts in scuba you're you know I don't know maybe leading a power trip you must be impeccable these are the But I want Shoguns to be really free in this school. There's many structures and I want you to gravitate to what you want to do. So, for example, I was talking to Bodhidharma, and Bodhidharma is like, you know, he can do lots of things. He could start his own brand new yoga and like try to do a new business if he wanted to because he's great at that. But he's like, you know what I think I'm... and he could also like be a huge leader in the org if you wanted to be in the org. He said, you know what I think I can help with the most is to be that that person who looks at all of the yogas and I could help them all of the yogas and it's just an advisory role but it is a very powerful role for him to be able to see how to help the yogas so he he's really done a really wonderful thing because remember you guys used to have to come to me quarterly and show me your yoga status and I'm like all, and I would have to go through that. Now he actually does that and he does it way better than I did. He's much stronger in his business acumen than I've ever been. So he decided I am going to help the sangha in my best way. And it's something that he does better than I do. And that's what I want you guys to do. You know, so this is what we need to do. We need to take the things that we're best at and that we're good at and that we're interested. I want you to do the thing that is strong for you. Like Manjushri is the leader. He's the really the top sensei of our school. Because he stepped up and he said, that's what I'm good at, I've been here, I've learned, I've done all this training and this is what I can do for the school. So there's so many magical ways when you take what you've learned, what you're good at, and you stand up and say, this is what I want to do in this diamond. You know, this is what I want to do in this school. I'm good at it. I'm impeccable and I'm strong. And I'm talking about, you know, two really strong leaders. Or I would say, I mean, I can go, I could go down the list. You know, I could be like, you know, Sambhava in music. He's like, I'm good at music, I learned music yoga, and I'm leading music yoga.

0:25:23
It's huge.

0:25:24
Or I could say, you know, Savitri and Kamala, which is a very important thing. You know, the bardos. They teach the Bardo yoga, they do the Bardo yoga. It is a very significant experience of helping people through death. It's part of our school. There's so many parts of our school. What's, if you're a Shodan, what's the thing that you want to excel at and lead? Or what do you want to excel at and lead? Or what do you want to support? You know, you might find that you're in a role of supporting something. So support Manjushri in martial arts, support Bodhidharma in yoga, like support the org,

0:26:17
but anything that you,

0:26:20
you must be impeccable when you're working with yoga or the org. And you have to do something. You have to do something. You have to do something where you are focused on this school, interacting with the school. And then, you know, that's the right way to do it. Now, I also want to tell showdowns, which I always say, that it's definitely absolutely okay to study with other teachers, to read different spiritual books than I recommend, right? To do all sorts of things that you're interested in. When you become a Shodan, then you have to, you know, you have a higher sense of agency. You've got the full empowerment of this school, but it might open your awareness to something else. You're like, oh, and if that happens, it's great. Follow it. Do what is Dharma for you. But don't be confused. It's like, you can do lots of new things. Like, Ashoran's fully empowered in this school. And there's lots of things that you'll come to, but make sure that it doesn't confuse you. Because if you bring confusion into my dojo because you're like, oh I read this spiritual book, oh I saw this teacher's talk, I'm like, that's just goofy waffle talk, as Rama called it. So you have happy if you explore all sorts of spiritual avenues. Never tell a Bodon what you're doing. Like you can't walk into like a karate dojo where you're a black belt and be like, hey green belt, you know, I was learning judo. Want to go train some judo with me? No, no, This is showdown level, what I'm talking about. When you talk to Bodon's and new students, you have to have the party line. You can't be like, oh, there's this book and there's this new idea that I have and share it with you. Oh, I've gotten to this new higher state. No, no, no. When you're dealing with the structure of the school, you need to be impeccable examples of the structure of the school. You can't be like, oh, let me show you some Aikido in a karate class. It doesn't make any sense. So you guys are going to be focused. Focused. But at the same time, it's totally fine to go to, you know, you like, you know, I don't

0:29:35
know, Ariyashanti or whatever.

0:29:37
There's all sorts of interesting teachers to look at out there. And when you're strong in your system, then they can give you more awareness. It's fine. I mean, I have no problem with it. then they can give you more awareness.

0:29:57
It's fine.

0:29:58
I mean, I have no problem with it. And you'll see that everything that they say is not different than what I say. It's just that it gives you more, you know, awareness of how to talk about it. How to talk about enlightenment. Well, enlightenment, enlightenment, enlightenment. Oh, that other teacher said enlightenment, enlightenment, enlightenment. It happens, but shodans don't be confused. You know, being confused is like so idiotic. To go to one enlightened teacher and say, oh, your way is so good. Wait, now I know another way which is better. It's confusion. Everything is the best. It just depends on where you want to put your loyalty, where you want to work from with a group of people. That is a fidelity of connection. That's what a sangha is. It's a very powerful thing. So when you get confusion because you go to one school and you're like, oh my god, it's amazing. Then you see some other person who talks a different way and go, oh my gosh, I'm so confused. That means that you're like, enlightenment school here? I love this school. Oh wait, but then there's also enlightenment there. And that brings you out of unity. So in the Hagukkuri, the book of the Samurai, they say it's bad when one becomes two. But when you're enlightened, everything of every enlightened teacher doesn't draw you out into some other enlightened experience. This one's better. It all, everything that you learn draws you in to greater wisdom, greater awareness, greater enlightenment.

0:32:14
Don't be confused.

0:32:16
Don't be so confused. Don't be so confucius. Okay, so I remember I was in Thailand, the island of Phuket. I was getting my PADI, scuba instructor certification. And I got there and I was like, yeah, I know how to dive. I'm just like fricking dive master because I was a dive master. And then I'm like, I've been diving since you were born. because I was a dive master. And then I'm like, I've been diving since you were born. Just kidding. I mean, I was a dive master since 1998. So I was all like, I'm a dive master. And then guess what happened? I go there and then the teacher is from England and most of the students are Dutch. And I was like, where the hell did all you Europeans come from? It doesn't make any bloody sense. And they said, oh, why are you here? I was the one American. They're like, you're one Yankee. I was like, oh, okay. Anyway, I was like, yes, we're going to dive, scuba, instruct. And they're like, everything is in the metric system. And I was, I learned everything about my dive tech in, you know, feet and pounds and shillings, no, no shillings, sorry. You know, PSI, you know, I was like, I was like, whoa. I had to learn the metric system, like right there in my instructor development course. And I was like, whoa, it's really intense. Because you go from like a foot to a meter and all of a sudden in diving, it's precise. You have to be really like focused on what does that mean? I remember Deanna was like, oh yeah, I went on a dive and I did this deep dive to like, you know, I don't know, what was it, a hundred meters? She's like, it wasn't that deep. I'm like, yeah, a hundred meters is not a hundred feet. It went to like 300 feet. We almost died. Anyway, it wasn't that deep. But remember Deanna? It was like super, super deep. Okay, so anyway, then I was there and I was like, oh my gosh, feet, meters, learning depth, PSI, like in the den on the first, you know, reg of the tank, I was like, oh my gosh, it's all these things that are different because it's all European. And then we went on this one dive and my teacher was telling me all these different, he's like, he's how you go from like pounds to shillings to pence. And I was like, oh my gosh. And he said, how do you go from this to that to this? And I was like, oh my gosh, I was trying, and you know, I got good. And I was like, okay, when I went on my dive computer, going from feet to meters, here's how you dive. And this is where, and actually made a lot more sense. But then we went out on a dive. And I, I learned from my teacher, all of the things about from the metric system, but I got confused on, you know, like from pounds to kilos. So we went on a boat and I got confused on pounds to kilos so I underweighted myself. And on the dive, I couldn't dive. I literally couldn't dive because I was underweighted. And because my teacher wasn't really good at showing me what to do, on that dive, I had mass confusion. Can you guys get that? It's true though. I mean, this is a true story. From pounds to kilos I had mass confusion. You know, this is one of the most powerful teachings that Shiva has. He's like, he's like, the one thing, he studied with Rama for like one year, got kicked out, and then like ten years later got And he was like, the one thing is with your teacher, pure connection. And Brahma always used to say, I don't care if you love me. He's like, love tends to be garbage. You love me one moment, hate me the next. That's an ego. And he said, but I'm bigger than that. And so Shiva loved Rama. He got kicked out, but he came back to Rama in a clean way. You know, I studied with Rama much many more years than Shiva did, but Shiva always had that clean connection. It's so important. You can't get confused with other things. It all has to come back to one place. I mean, if you want to, be a part of the mandala. If you want to like, you know, like, create your own thing. But there's this very powerful thing called lineage. Lineage doesn't have to happen. There's lots of like enlightened monks in a cave in India or Tibet. They can do their own thing. Fine, whatever. And they're a little spark. What a beautiful spark. They're their own thing. But the powerful things that have happened in Buddhism have happened, or spirituality, have happened in and creating systems, creating lineages. So we're not like a little yogi who just wants to do their own thing and be happy. We are like, we are working, I am, you are, we are working for a bigger system. It's a giant and powerful system of compassion. It's a system of compassion. So the fact that you know you have all the opportunity in the world. Shoguns, find the place that you like in this group, in this buffet, in this structure, and do your best and be impeccable. You know, find your place, find your assemblage point, find your caretaker in this system. Shodan, find what you are strong at, like Bodhidharma did, that Shambhala, that Sambhava did. It's like, what is it that I am good at, that I can help? That's a good place. You know, Sambhava not only is like the strongest leader of music, he's also a leader, an abbot in Bodhiwoods. You are fully empowered. Do the best things that you want to do. You don't want to do Zen at work. Don't do it. Do, like, but look at your sangha and say, what is the dharma in the school? What am I good at? That's what I'll, that's what I'll work on. But a clean connection to your, to your teacher. If you don't, the light closes. It's just an absolute fact of life. It's truth of being. If there was a student of Buddha who says, I reject Buddha, they might go on their own way, but they reject a huge condition of enlightened And I'm like, why would you do that? You think you're special. So Sahaja, great soul passed away. Who taught me many things and gave me a lot of insight. But Sahaja was like, there's this thing, once you become enlightened, there's this thing called the enlightened ego. I was like, enlightened ego? Ego and enlightenment to me were the opposite. But she's right. Because lots of my Shadons and Arhans have this enlightened ego. I didn't know it. I didn't understand it. Because when I became enlightened, I was in that total focused structure of a great enlightened master where it's no bullshit. And I focused and I worked. And Mandala was there with me and the SD3s saw us. And what did we do? We were impeccable. We had no self. We just really, really, really, honestly worked for light. Those were yogis, enlightened yogis. Maybe baby enlightened. Maybe we had moksha, maybe we had primary, but we we did not give up. We were totally focused on the yoga. So don't give up. Don't be a baby. Be strong. You know ST3s or ST4s or ST5s. Look at, look at me. I am the example. ST3s from one stage, you know it. And you know it with a couple of other great yogis and Nala and Sananda. But look at that, that's for real. And that's part of you. That's the light in you. And then look at me. I am still standing. I'm still standing as a pillar of liberation. And I am at a very high point of enlightenment and that's what I want to share with you guys tonight and tomorrow because there's things I want to talk to you about. So, this construct of all of us, if you don't do your part, it dissimulates. But everybody in all their parts comes together. And you're the leaders to make this all happen together, but it comes together. See how it comes together? together, it's like a whole, a balance, a connection, a unity. It's a mandala. Look at this, a mandala. It comes together. This is what we do. We come together. It's not, You have to have perspective. What's outside of this? Trouble. Being together. Unity. The struggle, the difficulty, but it comes together. Everything is strong. So we need to do this together. You have minimal requirements, showdowns. Do whatever you want within school, but do it, take responsibility and do it powerfully in the school. You can do whatever else you want to do, it's totally fine, it's okay. Now, this is empowering to showdowns. Showdowns be empowered. Do, I mean, what else do you want to do? Like, tell me something. Because you can tell me, oh, I want to do like wickedy widgets. I want to do like basket weaving. Tell me what you want to do and I will, I will, anything, Shodans, anything that you want to do in the universe, I'll say, I'm going to move, you know, the mandala to make anything that you want, your dream come true for enlightenment. You know, you know who's a big pioneer in this way?

0:49:44
Pele.

0:49:45
Pele is like, I saw this great teaching from Sahaja. I'm going to do this as my yoga.

0:49:57
Great.

0:49:58
Wonderful. It's totally embraced. It's not out of balance, it's totally 100% in line with all of the other teachings of the Brahma lineage. An amazing experience. So you can do anything, anything you want to do, but let's do it together. Let's make it a stronger community of the Ashera Buddhism. I didn't want to take up too much of your time, but this is important. This is why I'm talking to you guys tonight. The most important thing, Shodons, Arhons, is that you have a clean connection with your

0:50:58
teacher.

0:50:59
So, I'm telling you. I'm just telling you as it is. I don't take any credit. I am nothing but you need to see that the power, the massive intense power of your empowerment of your life made you so strong in your career and all that stuff and everything that made you get to your liberation, it has come from our connection, teacher-student relationship. If I go to a karate dojo, I can get a black belt. I can do some kicks I can't be punching I could be strong I feel I found it in myself I found it in myself because my teacher taught me it that is the proper awareness of things do you understand it's not like you know You know, we don't do it on our own. If you did it on your own, you'd be like a Padma Sambhava.

0:52:34
Great.

0:52:35
And then I would follow you. But you are here because this is a strong school of enlightenment. Even for showdowns, totally empowered showdowns, who can do all the magical, mystical, you know, things. It's because you're here, because this is where you got it, and there's more. Right? I remember we were at, in San Diego, and there was this one gal who was an SC2, really lovely, wonderful, strong person and she got totally confused after the showdown level. She got all the empowerment. She just didn't keep the focus on enlightenment. She said, I need to learn learn all this stuff about Zen. Zen. And she became a Zen priest in the Zen function of programs, which is a huge thing. You wanna get a black belt in karate? 10 years. She did 10 years of whatever you have to do in Zen to become a Zen master or Zen priest. And she's all, I got my same priest. You know, I was like, and then what good did it do? It separated her for 10 years, focusing on some weird doctrine. And then we met her at ABS and a lot of my students were there. San Diego, you guys remember that and She was she as a Zen priest But then she's a Zen master. She was like I'm a Zen master. I'm gonna help these retarded ABS students and then guys remember when I stood up and I Kanye Wested that motherfucker and I I give I give powerful energy of enlightenment. After that she came over to me and she said you guys remember she was one of the She said, that was the most brilliant, direct connection, light, for a teacher that I have ever seen after his death. And I'm like, welcome to my world. That's what I do every day. And she was like, whew. And she dropped her Zen master, Zen priest, and she shined with the light of this lineage. Come on, Zen is out of this world. If you wanna become a Zen master in this world, you're just like going through a whole bunch of garbage stuff and it's not all spiritual.

0:56:04
Do you guys get what I mean?

0:56:06
I'm trying to actually make it similar. You know, this sangha, our sangha, you, especially you, you black belts, you show up, and me, you are handsome, and me we are at the top and the strongest level and we lead the way you lead the way with your impeccability and this is a successful Sangha just like Buddha Buddha was like I can give some badass teachings over here but he has Arhats to give badass teachings in 12 other states I don't know places they're like BAM we're enlightened we are fully empowered to share the light and that makes the biggest difference. Many teachings where the Shodans, the fully empowered ones, are stronger than the Arhats.

0:57:24
Being an Arhat means you're enlightened.

0:57:26
a shodan means that you are powerful in the system. I don't know. You gotta go to some more martial arts tutors. So do you know that our sangha is magic? Our sangha is the most magical sangha that I don't know, like I can see. Remember Ganga Nav? He's like been through so many things. He's all, this is the best Sangha I've ever seen. All these Se1's and Se2's, they absolutely are drawn to teach here. You know why? Because this Sangha is stronger than an individual.

0:58:25
It's stronger than a Buddha.

0:58:27
I'm a Buddha, but I got a lot of Buddhas. I'm enlightened, but I have a lot of enlightened students. It's not just about following one person. The major way of this school is many enlightened beings who are managing the Sangha org. So, you guys remember when ST1s and STTs would show up? They were like, oh, we're going to show up and we're going to like, come and do our teachings. Once they walked into our field of enlightened energy of a Sangha, they were lit. They had their points. But look at them. It elevated them. We elevated them. Remember? And it's enlightening for them. It's a beautiful thing. Okay, Kali SC1, Lakshmi SC1, Shiva SC1, Akhikala SC2, they come into our school and they're like I know so many things I want to share. But when they walked into our room, we elevated them because we are the true Sangha. A true Sangha is the same as a Buddha. And then they came in and they're like, well, we're going to give you some Dharma teaching, but they were elevated. You saw Teachers, you know, show it on teachers. When you teach, you're in an elevated state. They're automatically wired for that because they are students of the yoga of a great enlightened master. It's just that they can't do it themselves. They can't create this school. If they were, you know, Rama used to do this, he's like, in my powerful school, you, with this one power, teach us technology. You teach us martial art. He did that and it all worked. And the thing is that we have a very strong school. Very strong school. It's because it's a real school. It's true sangha. It's not something to weaken, it's something to focus on. So the thing is, in our school, we need to see It is. And if you don't think it's precious, there's a door I will throw you out. I only want to be with people who see it the same way I see it. It's precious. This is a precious world, precious life, precious moment, precious experience, precious enlightenment. If you have any other idea showed on, there's a door. There's a door everywhere. It's the same door to Zen. Get the fuck out and go into Zen. Do whatever the fuck you want. I only want to be with people who are Rama's last teaching. Loyal. I exist and only opened the power of light and enlightenment to you because I am loyal to my teacher. And if you have any other fucking ideas and you wanna do anything else, get the fuck out of my school, go experience that, do whatever you want. I only wanna be with people who are great, who love, who care. Like I'm sitting there with my teacher, me and my teacher Rama. Do I wanna sit there? When I'm sitting there with Rama, I love him, he's the best. I love everything that he says. Dharma, I hang on every word he says. He tells me to do something, I do it. Do I wanna have a whole bunch of fucking ST, whatever the fucks you are, horrible people with negativity, you know even though you've been around a lot or whatever, whatever, I don't care anyone. No, in my heart I'm totally connected to my guru. I love him. If you have doubt, if you don't want to pay tuition, get the fuck out. I don't care about you at all. You're in your own fucking karma, and I'm in a connection of the mandala of perfection. It's not self. I'm not self. My guru is not self. So, if you're stuck in something as a showdown, get the fuck out. I don't care. Do your own thing. Go through what you want to go through. But me, I'm enlightened. And I'm enlightened because I had an enlightened teacher. And if you don't believe that, then get out of here.

1:04:25
See?

1:04:28
I'm just trying to, I wanted to do this in like an hour because tomorrow I have another hour of important information. It's actually higher.

1:04:46
This is my correction after the solstice.

1:04:50
Tomorrow we're going to go to the next level. Yeah, so, shodans, I mean, you have to be impeccable. In the desert, I said, you are the stewards of the sangha. You want to be a steward of the sangha out of what? How did he make hundreds of thousands of people Buddhist monks? It's because he said, here's some power of truth. Open the Dharma, spin the wheel of Dharma, open the Mahamandala. That's what he did. And that's how you change everything

1:05:43
for everyone.

1:05:51
Shodons, you are the leaders of the school. You have minimal requirements and they are minimal. But there's a lot of liberty of how you want to do? It's a big school, it's a big structure, it's a big diamond. What do you want to do? You gotta pay your tuition, you gotta come to classes, you gotta do the basics, you gotta be impeccable in the Sangha, but find the place. Find what you want to do. I mean, Bodhidharma, for example, he could start a new yoga. He could teach all sorts of people anything about business. It's a huge thing. He could say, I want to focus on teaching people career or something. He could do all sorts of things, but he's like, in my enlightened state of consciousness, I want to do, though I'm drawn to do, that I'm strong at, is I want to advise yogas, American and Hungarian. And since he took over from me doing that same job, he's done it better than me. That's what I want you to do. I mean I can walk in and I can do all blah blah blah, you know I can do some stuff but Manjushri is really, you know, elevate himself as a great martial artist, a great martial arts yogi, to be so balanced, to look at all sorts of situations. He's really the sensei of the sangha. I might be the O-sensei, but I'm the executive chairman O-sensei. But you know, I have the CEO. So, you know, like Manjushri is my CEO teacher, because he cares, He's on it, he focuses, he's been through life and death and back. I'm not kidding you. So, these are the things that showdowns do. Showdowns, you're the black belts of the school. You lead. I don't want to tell you what to do. I actually just want to see what you do. Like with Bodhidharma, you know, like with Manjushri, I see impeccability, just great impeccability, the great leaders, the great teachers, the great enlightened enlightened aspects, revealing, opening the enlightened consciousness of the school that lifts everybody up to enlightened success. Okay, sorry, I'm 11 minutes beyond where I wanted to go, but tomorrow I'm going to talk shodans, or hans, about the way forward. So, thank you very much. Be well, and I'll see shodans, or hans, about the way forward. So, thank you very much. Be well, and I'll see you tomorrow, same time.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
