0:00:00
Hello everyone.

0:00:06
So we'll begin with meditation. We'll sit for one song focused on the heart.

0:00:12
the the the So so So so the the so you All right. So today I'd like to talk about the gift of impermanence. Somebody asked Suzuki, the master, famous master, they said, what's the essence of Buddhism? He's like, everything changes. This is the big teaching, anitya, Sanskrit word, impermanence. Everything is changed. It's a very big point in Buddhism. You have to embrace change, understand change, because change happens. Change is the nature of reality. Everything changes. Everything mental changes, everything physical changes. It's the way of things. It, there's always birth, maturation, decline, and destruction. And it continuously happens. And that's the cycle of change. So, whether you have a job, a body, a house, a car, or really nice shoes. It's going to change. Thoughts, feelings, concepts, ideas, they change as well. Everything changes. George Cartland said, as soon as I figured out the meaning of life, they changed it. So, change is the way of things. And when you understand that there is change, that impermanence is the way of life, then you can do something, then you can learn something. That's how we grow, actually. which reminds me of, there is a book by Kafka called Metamorphosis, also needs to change.

0:03:56
And there's this, one of the main characters, Gregor, he's a bug, like a beetle or something, like his same size, but he just turned into a bug overnight. And he's like, oh man, I can't make sales as a bug. And he can't even talk because he's a bug. And so it's like, you know, that's kind of what one of the outer aspects of the book, but I think the big change is his sister, Greta, and she's like, just, you know, the homebody, just, you know, doing her embroidery and stuff like that, and then she's all, oh, now that Gregor can't work, I gotta go get a job. So she goes through this big transformation in becoming powerful, and he goes through a big transformation in becoming a bug. So we, you know, in Buddhism, we want to experience change, but we want to have that enlightened aspect of change, the empowering aspect. We don't want to just become bugs.

0:07:59
So,

0:08:00
impermanence is an outcome, a consequence of unity. Impermanence is,

0:08:07
impermanence or change comes from oneness.

0:08:11
So in Daoism, they call this Tai Chi. And I'm not talking about like, you know, Tai Chi form.

0:08:19
We do Tai Chi, right?

0:08:21
So it's not that. Although Tai Chi, it's called Tai Chi because the movements is supposed to align you with that oneness.

0:08:50
I'll tell you my Tai Chi joke.

0:08:52
This guy walks into a bar,

0:08:53
and he's having a drink,

0:08:54
and this other guy comes over to him and says, he's like, I'm gonna beat you up, because I'm a Tai Chi master. The guy's like, what? Okay.

0:09:04
Isn't Tai Chi slow?

0:09:05
So the guy goes like this, he goes, this is my eagle claw from Yang style Tai Chi. And he hits him, he's like, ow. And he's like, well, okay. And then he goes, okay, this is my crane beak from Wu style. And he hits him, he goes, all right, let's take this outside. So they go outside of the bar. And then 30 seconds later, the guy who was attacked by the Tai Chi master is pulling the Tai Chi master in. He's unconscious and he lays him down. The bartender says, what happened to him? And he says, crowbar, the trunk of my car. So, that's one kind of Tai Chi. But no, Tai Chi means, like the spiritual meaning of Tai Chi is supreme ultimate, which the galactic oneness of all things, eternity, the Tao, enlightenment. You know, it's just like the biggest thing. Tai Chi means the supreme ultimate. So this is what we understand as the supreme ultimate, and change comes from that. So, from Tai Chi comes yin and yang. Have you ever seen that little symbol, the yin-yang symbol? It's called yin-yang, but when it's together, it's called Tai Chi. They're separate, when they're separate, when you see them as separate, it's yin-yang, but when it is together, it's Tai Chi. We see that symbol, let me say, Yin Yang symbol, but a Taoist would say that's a Tai Chi symbol, meaning that Yin and Yang together are Tai Chi. So it seems like this really, really, really high thing, this supreme ultimate, the intergalactic oneness, it's accessible because I saw it on a Chinese menu at a restaurant. It was Tai Chi chicken. I'm like, oh, I got that. One of my favorite restaurants. And I ate the chicken, I was happy. Okay, so, here's another joke. Alright, so there's a couple at a Chinese restaurant, and they're ordering, and the guy says, uh, I'll have a number 14. And the waiter goes, okay, sweet and sour pork. I'll have a number 21. He goes, okay, Mongolian beef. And then he sits there with his girlfriend, holds her hand, and says, You and I are one. She looks down at the menu and says, Sweet, hot and sour soup? That's the rated G version, by the way. Anyway, we're not going to go further than that. So, yin and yang is good and bad. Good and bad are not good and bad. There's yin and yang. Life and death. We say life is good, death is bad. Good is good, bad is bad. But not really the, you know, it's all the same. Two sides of the same coin. It's like God is playing Rochambeau. You're like, oh, I won. Oh, I won. Right? So, it's the play of the universe. And when we understand things properly, the things where we can see loss, we can have Tai Chi. The places that we see bad, we can have Tai Chi. So there are not things that are bad or good. There's just different ways of understanding. And when we just, you know, if we just are simple and say, oh, I only like pleasant things, then you're not Tai Chi. You're one-sided, and that always will tilt you to imbalance. But Tai Chi is everything coming together. Everything. And when everything comes together, then there's Tai Chi. So, some guy goes over to Pu Tai. Pu Tai was this famous Buddha in China. You know, he's the fat Buddha who likes kids.

0:14:37
He's also called Maitreya,

0:14:38
but he was a real person called Pu Tai. And some guy goes over and says, show me Tai Chi. He says, okay, I'll show you Tai Chi if you buy me a meal. And they go to a restaurant and he's like, okay, so, you know, he orders some rice and vegetables. It's like, he's a monk, you know, probably likes vegetables. And then he goes, oh, okay. How about I get you some beef? He's all, mm-hmm, beef. And he goes, this is too yang, I need some more yin. What do you mean? Well, pork is yin. Okay, some pork. Oh, this is too yin, I need some more yang. Well, what's more yang? Lamb, some of that. And then he just keeps going and going until the full menu is ordered. And everything's sitting at the table, and then Futai says, This is Tai Chi. And then he goes into this condition of bliss, of Tai Chi in his consciousness, while he's eating. So, Tai Chi is everything. All the yins, all the yangs, It's also what you give up. It's not only what you get, it's also that emptiness. It's dropping things. So a lot of times we think, even in good and bad, we think of getting something good or getting something bad. But Tai Chi is also just letting go.

0:16:53
Yeah, so half of it is getting good and bad

0:16:57
and half of it's letting go. And all of that comes together as Tai Chi. And Tai Chi is understanding that yin and yang, good and bad, are the same. You have to figure out, you know, you have to kind of resolve that. And that yin flows into yang. Yang flows into yin. So the things that you say are good and bad, they flow into each other. And if you judge something as good or bad, then you're in trouble. But if you just accept what happens, and you accept it as a whole, then that's what we call wisdom. But understand that, you know, something that is small can become big. Something that is big can become small. You know, like right now, Google and Facebook are big. Someday, they will be nothing, right? For example, right? And then there's maybe some little tech startup that's gonna become the next big thing. That's technology. But there's a story from the Art of War where I think it's commentary from a general called Ming of Wei. And it's a commentary on the small cannot defeat the large. And a lot of times they talk about, well, if you're a small army or a small state, you have to make alliances with big states. And then General Ming had an interesting idea. He was like, okay, he was at war with, I think, Chi, this big, big state, big country, and he's like, we're so small, and we're on their border, and we're in conflict, what are we going to do? And he said, well, we're, like, they were 10% the size of their army, and then he said, here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna draw them out, anger the general, and also their state, their city, their main city, had a big giant wall around it so it was impenetrable, especially with a small army. So he went over and he's all, hey, you guys suck. You guys are lame." And then it made the general so angry, he took 99% of his army and went to attack. And so General Ling-Wei drew them into a ravine with a small force that they were chasing, this giant army, and then they put a fire at the end. So they were like, oh, you guys, there's, and so there's some guys, there's a fire, fire going, we can't go through there's a fire, so they had to go all the way around, but it bought them enough time where they drew the army out. And then they go over, climb in and take over the capital. And then it was their capital. They beat that country. So, the small became the powerful. This is what, you know, Jesus said, the meek shall inherit the earth. So, this is what we do as Buddhists. We're like, we're very meek. We're very humble. We look at how to be, and this is the same thing as our board teaching, how to be small and powerful. Being small is the seed, or humility, or the me, is a seed to being great. So this is the kind of thing that we we work on. These are the subtle teachings. Because, you know, like, you know, the Western teachings of being strong and blah blah blah, blah blah blah. Eventually those things fall, right? You're like, if you're just, I'm powerful, I'm strong, eventually you fall.

0:21:34
Oh, really? That's an agreement.

0:21:38
So, yeah, it's important to understand. Now, why do people have suffering? The main reason is because they're trying to hold on to something permanent. The ego says, I need to be permanent. And that's the whole thing about spirituality. The ego wants to be permanent, I am this way, but life isn't permanent. Life is changing all the time, flowing, and any time that you're just trying to hold, that's where you have suffering, that's where you have trouble. So everything is how do I let go? Now let's say that you have a diamond in your hand, right? And because it's so valuable and you want it so much and has so many important things that it's gonna give you, you hang on to it. You're like, I need this diamond. And then that diamond will cut your hand because if you're like, wait, let me, there's a way to have a diamond or anything. And is this, open your hand, the diamond is still there. This is the way of air. You can't grab air. You can't grab it. Anytime you want to grab spirit, you're gonna, what you're gonna find is that you're grabbing concepts, self, ideas, feelings, all sorts of stuff. You know, you're gonna be grabbing things, but spirit is as, It's just the same as air. You can't grab it. But, here's how I can hold air. I can't grab air, I can hold air. I can hold all the air. I can hold all the spirit. And the way that we hold spirit is we meditate. We let go of self. We let go of the self. The self goes like this. It's always a contraction holding in everything to a little tiny piece of crap that we call ego. But when you go like this, it all opens up. You know, like in meditation and mindfulness and bodhicitta and yoga, you're always opening. It's very good. So when we open, we can get something new. If we're closed, we have everything old. Right? I have to explain this to Millennials. If you have an iPhone 13 and you're clinging to it, you can't get the next iPhone. Okay, good, now everyone understands. So when things are stuck in your life, you have to make a change. When things are stuck, so now we get down to what's practical. Look at your life, look at where things are stuck, and you have to make a change. And it's really easy, but you got to do it. And if you don't do it, it doesn't work. We did this in jujitsu. Someone grabs your wrist, and if you just try to do a jujitsu technique, you're going against their strength. So you have to do something else. So if I want to get out this way, I will push this way. Because when I push, if I go against their strength and they know what I'm trying to do, it's difficult. But if I go this way, then they go, I'm going to fight against that. And then I go like this. And we're not doing jujitsu, I'm just giving you, you know, it's like, eh, eh, eh, eh. You have to not go against the strength.

0:26:13
You have to do something, change it,

0:26:16
and then get to where you wanna go. So if you're in a situation where you're stuck in your mind, and you know where you want to go, you've got to do a change. And then you can get to where you go. See? That's what you learn in martial arts. That's what you learn in the teachings of Buddhism.

0:26:45
It's very strong.

0:26:49
So one of the most amazing things, the gift of impermanence, is what Buddha called the second noble truth. And that means that first noble truth, watch suffering. Really? Thanks Buddha. But there's a way out of suffering. There's a way out. Changes. So, life is suffering. Everybody knows. There's some pain, there's some difficulty, there's some suffering. And that shows impermanence of the condition of unenlightenment to enlightenment. So the I Ching is a very powerful teaching. And if you read the I Ching, it shows you all of the archetypes, structures of the life of samskara and change and impermanence. And if you understand that, then you can have Tai Chi. So they have 64 hexagrams. There's yin and yang, but then there's 64 ways of understanding yin and yang. And it's really powerful.

0:28:25
So when you are able to understand that there are changes

0:28:30
and that change, even if it's bad, if you do it in an enlightened way, it leads to good or enlightenment. You can handle good and bad, but like if we look at the hexagram that's called limitation, we would say, I don't like limitation. Limitation is my problem, I want to be unlimited. But if you understand what limitation means, then you say, limitation is what we call in astrology, Saturn. And Saturn is also discipline. With limitation, you can say, I'm going to take limitation and be disciplined, and then discipline makes you powerful, makes you strong. So, when you have limitation, you shouldn't say, oh, that's it, it's over, done, I'm limited. I have all these reasons to be limited. No, all of the reasons that you're limited should direct you to discipline that makes you stronger to overcome those limitations. So if you get hit with what we call bad karma, it's good karma.

0:30:04
Bad karma is not bad. You know, it's that story of Ferrari, Enzo Ferrari.

0:30:11
He's like, oh, so he was like, you know, like I gotta go, his family business is carpentry, right? So it's like, oh, I gotta go and help my family business. And whoop, the truck broke down. That's bad karma. And he's all, how do I fix this truck? I make it a sports car. He took it all apart, figured it all out, made it even better. And he goes, hey, I have a knack for that. There's not bad karma. I mean, it was a bad deal of the day. He didn't make the money that day, whatever, right? But he figured out something way more powerful.

0:31:01
So there is no bad karma.

0:31:04
There's only what you need to learn to get more enlightened, to get more powerful. That's what we do. I mean, you can cycle through good karma and bad karma, up and down, up and down, whatever. But if you study life in the mind, spirit, those ups and downs are not up and down, they're both God. They're Both yin and yang is both Tai Chi. So, the I Ching is a story of understanding those symbols. Such a really good book. I read the I Ching so many times. But limitation is something that says, hey, I have something I gotta do. I gotta wake up here. Like I have a limitation, but if I deal with it, if I deal with a limitation in a strong way, I can take my little business, you know, doing some carpentry for the family, stressing out about little baby things, and I could be sports cars the best in the world. That's what you can do. Don't sit there and say, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me. Don't sit there and say, I suck, I suck, and things suck. Look for how can you rebuild this truck and find a Ferrari in it. That's what he did. That's Tai Chi. Something bad make it good. That's what we do as Buddhists in our yoga. And it tends to be good when there's enlightenment. So there was a story of a, um, there was a guy who was making wine, we're going back up in the mountains far from the main town and he had a small vineyard because you know it's just him and he was like oh I have to and he's like I made some wine for my family but I could make a little wine and go all the way down 24 miles or something walking to the village and stuff.

0:34:02
And he's like, I have so much limitation.

0:34:04
So far away, I can only carry so much. I only have such a big vineyard. And then he said, Hmm, what if I make another vessel that I can carry? In my other hand. And I also grow some more wine. So starts off with fermentation, takes the next step. Just a gradual step. Every step is gradual. Don't expect everything to be overnight. Everything is gradual. Then he goes back and he goes, hmm, I can plant more and now I can, you know, like, let's say, get a horse. I can put more of these vessels on the horse and get more money. Limitation makes you strong if you work with, this is what Saturn tells you, this is the discipline. You go, oh, I can grow, do the next step, the next step. Oh, I'll increase my yield, I'll put barrels instead of little whatever I was carrying before. You see? And then boom boom boom boom boom boom boom. And the hexagram of limitation is your best friend. It made you strong. If everything was easy, that's great, well it's easy. And if everything's hard, then that's great. Well, it's hard. And that's Tai Chi. So this all brings you to what we call the eternal mind. The eternal mind is everything that changes. The eternal mind is that everything is impermanent. The eternal mind is that night and day, good and bad, win and loss, is eternity.

0:36:39
Okay, so there was a student who was having a hard time.

0:36:46
Oh, this is a monk.

0:36:47
He's having a hard time. This is in Tibet. And the monk is like, I'm having trouble all the time. And he was like the weakest student in the school. And then his Rinpoche, Tathagat Lama. This guy was like this powerful enlightened guy, yellow hat. Anyway, he says, here's the thing, here's the thing about you. You need to go to this cave, because the thing is that you have all this impermanence, you have ups and downs in your mind, but if you go to that cave and you meditate 30 days, 90 days, something like that, maybe 10 years, he's like, you go to that cave, and if you go to that cave, you're going to come back with eternal mind. So the guy goes, okay, I'm going to follow that, goes out there, he goes back, and he's all, and he became enlightened. And then the other monks are like, what is this eternal mind that the guru was talking about? And then he says, the eternal mind is like the ocean. And he gave this talk about the ocean and the eternal mind. And he goes into Smriti, he lifted everybody up and they were like, wow. And then the next day they say, tell us more about the eternal mind. And then he starts talking about the sky. The sky is the eternal mind. And they go, but I thought it was the ocean. Because you told us it was the ocean. And he's like, no, forget the ocean. It's the sky. And then they go, oh, and then he goes into Somali and everyone has this really hard experience. And he comes back and he's like, the eternal mind is this plate of food. And they're like, what? He's all, mmm. And then they're like, it seems like the eternal mind is super random. And then he's all, mm-hmm. It's like, it's not the ocean, it's not the sky. Those are ways of talking about it. It's not food, unless you're with Poo Thai. But he's like, everything is eternal life. Everything's Tai Chi. Is there a yin? Is there a yang? Is there a good? Is there a bad? Is there an up? Is there a down? All things are Tai Chi.

0:39:43
And that...

0:39:49
that's what we have to understand. We can't sit there and say, I like this, I don't like this. We have to understand if there's something you don't like. That's a spiritual lesson for you to understand that that is also enlightenment. You can't say, I really like Yin and I don't like Yang. You have to say, when Yin happens, cool. When Yang happens, cool. Right? The ocean is enlightenment. The sky is enlightenment and what's not enlightenment? Everything that you see, anything where you say, good, bad, whatever, don't be so good, bad, whatever. The teaching is that everything is the flow, yin and yang, and it all comes together. It's all Tai Chi. Tai Chi is enlightenment. Tai Chi is the Tao. Tai Chi is the oneness of the universe. So the gift of impermanence is the gift of understanding that all the changes that we go through life, death, up, down, happy, sad, something good happens, something bad happens, but it's all enlightenment. So the gift of impermanence is understanding that change is also eternity.

0:41:22
And with that I'm going to do the transmission.

0:41:26
The transmission of this teaching. We're going to sit just for one song, focus on the third eye.

0:41:31
And let's begin.

0:41:32
so so

0:41:42
Thank you so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
