0:00:00
Hello, showdoms! So today we're going to talk about shit that's been going down. So, you know, going into the equinox, we had this theme of unity, and then we found ourselves especially with the shodoms of confusion and disunity. And this is all because of you know, Kala Chakra and soli and the correction of his conduct. So I know that like a lot of you got really really bothered, angry, upset, and unbalanced by Kala Chakra and Solei and Kala Chakra and his conduct. And okay, it's okay to get upset, but then you should practice Dharma. Some of you think that what he's been doing is absolutely outrageous and terrible. And I agree. You know, if there's self in there, it'll create over time in a group attention, right? So we've been in a sanda for a long time together, and this behavior created attention, and I've always been giving him corrections on it. But I'm like, yeah, he's kind of like an average ST1. ST1s all the time, they took their empowerment and then they used power, occultism, and mysticism, sneaking around in dream planes, doing all sorts of things, getting what they want, pushing each other, fighting each other, causing each other harm, illness, injury. And they just did that all the time, that's just what they did. And so, you know, that's why, like, this is not outrageous behavior, it might seem like it to you guys, but to me this is like, it's kind of average ST1 stuff. You know, even Kali and Lakshmi do that. It's just that they're not empowered anymore. They used to be much more active when they had power and energy, but they still do the same stuff. So anyone who, like in our Sangha, who got to work closely with them, they were like, whoa, what the hell are they doing? They're manipulating me, they're coming into my dreams, they're pushing their energy, they're doing this occultism, they just aren't as strong as they used to be. They used to be much worse. But Rama never kicked them out. Rama, um, he would always really teach the assholes. So I remember the first time I saw this, it was actually on the big island. It was my first power trip. And we're sitting at a table having dinner. And my mentor, she was on security, but she wasn't on duty that night. So I had been to, I don't know, maybe 10 satsangs at that point. And she was always wearing a tuxedo because she was on security, and that's what the code was for them then. And so she's wearing this beautiful dress sitting at the table, and then Ananda is sitting across from her. So Ananda was, I think, the first ST-1 who became enlightened. And he was always considered to be pretty much like one of the most powerful SD1 guys. And Ananda was all like, Hey Suzy, you look really nice in that dress. And he was just doing stuff like that. And then I was just all, you know, it was like normal to me. And then at some point, she like leans over to me and she's like, God, he's being such a jerk. He's like doing all this stuff with all this energy and all this attention and stuff I was like oh really? I was like, okay. And then she says, I really wish you would tell him, like, hey buddy, leave my mentor alone. And I'm like, you want me to do that? She's like, yeah. And you're telling me about all this like occult stuff that he's doing to you, and I don't even see it? I'm like, you're kind of like telling a white belt to tell a black belt to go fuck off, right? Anyway, so I was like, I'm not going to do it. And then like 15-20 minutes later, Rama comes over. And Rama comes over to him and goes, hey, how's it going? Hey, let's go for a walk and talk. And stuff like that. And then, there's this other ST1 sitting next to my friend, so there's another ST2, my friend John. And this guy is just talking to John the whole time. Like, he looks like he's having a good conversation with him. And then John's all like... I was just talking to John later, and he's like, Dude, it's like this guy's hitting on me in this weird way. And like, you know, like, you know, he, you know, so like, now we're going to be like, going and hanging out and looking at the stars later tonight. And I'm like, oh. I'm like, you want to do that? And he's all, I don't know, man. I don't know.

0:05:51
You're freaking me out.

0:05:54
And then, um, and then our mentor comes over and goes, do not talk to that guy ever again. He's totally doing all these weird things to you, and he's totally gay and stuff. And he's like, oh, he's gay! So it was hitting on me. So we were just like, what the fuck is going on? Anyway, and then, 10 minutes, 15 minutes later, then Rama comes over and goes, hey, how's it going? Hey, let's go talk and stuff. And then I was like, wow, those two ones are fucking crazy. I thought they were saints up until that point. And then I was like, what's all this shit my mentor's talking about, about this occultism and this attention and power, like sorcery and stuff. I'm like, whoa. So, um, and then I was with Rama for many years as security, very close to him, and I noticed that any time there was, you know, in the, in the org, when there's the biggest asshole at an event, he'd go over and talk to them. Sometimes he would yell at them, sometimes he'd be very nice to them. But he would teach them. So, you know, when there's someone who's got trouble, they have their karma, even if they have, you know, S2 ones all had lots of power, lots of occultism, lots of sorcery. They did it all the time. It was a pain in the ass. That's why I told my FT3s in the beginning, I said, I don't think you guys would ever cut it in Rama's Sangha. It was a pain in the ass. They were just all fucking with each other all the time. It was a very, very, very, very, very, very painful Sangha to be in. And so, I like our Sangha because it's not like that, and that, you know, when we have someone who starts acting like an average STD, we're going to bring attention to it. But I am, you know, it's not like so outrageous to me. You know, maybe I just was, I grew up in a really tough dojo. But I like that, you know, this is a kind of conduct that we don't want to accept. And so, and what I do is exactly what Brahma does. I teach assholes. And so, if you're a little asshole, I teach you. If you're a big asshole, I teach you. So I do. So I teach with the Dharma. I, you know, sometimes I yell at you when I'm wrathful. Sometimes I'm very happy and buddy-buddy with you. And these are both just skillful means for teaching Dharma. So, you know, after Tara talked about his method of operation of conduct over the years, then he started discording with you guys, right? And then Kalachakra's words were divisive. It wasn't right speech. It was horrible. It was only to say, like, fuck you, I'm better than you, you guys are lame. That was about it, from what I heard. I'm not on Discord, but that's what I saw snippets of it, and that made everybody like ten times more upset. That actually created the biggest, um, part of upsetness. So um, it's always important to have right speech. Um, so I was talking with Kala Chakra and Soli, and I was talking to them about right speech, right speech, right speech, and then Sully's all, Hey! Have you ever heard of this book, How to Win Friends and Influence People? It was really funny. She said, ironically. Yeah, but you know, it's like, you know, Kalachakra has a power and a vision and something really wonderful in his liberation. And I'm like, you have to like, if you want to express that, express it in a way where everyone can get on board with it. Because the way that he was expressing it was absolutely troublemaking, divisive. But I'm like, you know, it's like in Daoism, if you have an idea for the group, you don't just go, I'm gonna Donald Trump an idea on you. You say, you know, you like bring up, hey guys, wouldn't it be cool if, what about benefit, benefit? And then the whole group, you don't even make the decision, the whole group makes the decision. So that's right speech. And if you wanna share a vision, or share a dharma or something like that, don't just try to cram it down people's throats, right? You have to share the way. Very simple. A lot of you got so mad at Kala Chakra, you wanted me to kick him out. And, you know, that's how strong your compassion is. You're like, we don't like him, kick him out. That's our compassion. And then I'm all, no I'm not going to kick him out. Then you go, well I'm mad at you then. So then you get mad at me because I actually have compassion. I actually practice compassion. So, one, I practice compassion. And don't get mad at me because I do that. Two, I also have perspective. You know? Like, bring your enlightened perspective. I have perspective. I've seen worse. And I also see a way of dharma forward where, you know, Kala Chakra's enlightenment can be a great benefit to the Sangha. So it's, you know, getting mad at me because I'm not kicking him out, or I don't seem mad at him or something, it's just ridiculous. That's, you know, that's what, um, I've had students do that a lot. They go, I'm hurt, I'm bothered, you beat the shit out of the other person for me. That's what a lot of you guys do, and that's what you guys did here. And I'm like, well, there's a higher way. Now, as shodans you need to understand, even if you're teaching an intro class, there's a big-ass karma for kicking somebody out. Like, if there's somebody making noise in your intro class, you go, stop making noise, get the fuck out of here! You know? Like, you always make noise, get the fuck out, you get kicked out, you're banned, right? When you do that, even in an intro class, you're cutting somebody off from the pathway to enlightenment. And there's a lot of karma involved. Rama used to kick out students a lot. One time he had perfect discrimination, and he had a seeing of, you know, whatever he saw. And he would kick out ST1s for all sorts of different conduct. Sometimes he'd kick out ST1 men because they did something wrong to women. I've seen him do that. It's like, there was a man and woman that had a bad relationship, and then guy got kicked out. But I've also seen, you know, an ST1 guy who had dated 12 women, and Rama was totally fine with him. And some of the women came crying to him. So, Rama had a discrimination that, you know, was the way that he was setting up the path for his school and his people. But unless you have perfect, perfect, perfect discrimination, you've got to be very careful about who you kick out. So I've never kicked out anyone. Ever. I teach them, you know, I'll raise the power, I'll make, you know, I'll say, now we're going to do this. Now we're going to sell screws. Space screws, you know. Now we're going to sell, now everyone has to do software. You know, I'll do stuff like that. So, I'll give challenges and if someone's like, I don't want to do that, then they'll leave. If I yell at someone and they get mad at me, then they leave. So if you're going to be a teacher and you don't want to kick someone out, you want to say, what is it that bothers me about them, and how can I really challenge their ego so that they change that conduct? Then you address that. And you can be wrathful. You could say, do this, this, and this, and then they go, no, why are you here? And then they go, yeah, why can't we be here and we can? But, you know, you should use your awareness of the thing that makes you upset and try to find a way to teach them out of it, even if it's hard for them. You can give them a challenge, and they'll see their own way out. So I'd be very careful about just going, like, I don't like you. Get the fuck out of here. Get the fuck out of here. With this. You know, there was this story of a sangha who had kind of similar trouble. It was a Zen Sangha, and what happened is they had this monk, and he was kind of a new monk I think, but he was a monk. So he had been there for a while. Yeah, he had been there for at least a year. And he was stealing shit. Like he would sneak into the kitchen at night and eat the best food or whatever, and then he would like say, oh, that guy's baby bowl is better than mine, and he was just like stealing shit. He just kept stealing shit. And, you know, the monks are all like, little by little, they're like, hey, where'd that thing go? Hey, wasn't there that special thing? And like, they're like, something's going on. And then, little by little, they would say, he has my bowl, you know. Can I have my bowl back? Oh yeah, sorry. A week later, it's gone again. Where's my bowl? So they started to see this evidence, little by little, that he started stealing shit. And then they started to say, once in a while, they're like, Hey, stop stealing shit. And he's like, Oh, well, I'm sorry.

0:17:32
You should cut me some slack.

0:17:34
But they kept doing it. And then they would, they all, he stole something, like the Buddha. He stole the Buddha off the altar. And they're all like, hey where's the Buddha? He's all, I don't know. They're all, under your bed. Oh, there it is. And then they grab him and they bring him to the Zen Um, Monk Joe did this, this, this, this, this, this, this, and we're fucking pissed, and we don't, like, he broke one of the five precepts, he needs to get the fuck out of here.

0:18:13
And that's the result.

0:18:14
Hmm, it's okay. Um, it's like, he should go back to regular duties. And then they're all, ahhhhhh! They're totally fucking pissed. You know how to not do that. You know the Dharma, that that's wrong. But he doesn't know that. So, he can be here to figure it out. That's what the teachings are. The teachings of Dharma. And you guys already are lucky that you know not to do that, but he doesn't yet. But, he can learn. And then the monk was all, oh, hmm. And he was like, oh. And then, because everyone was pissed, and because of his conduct, and because he was in a place where he could learn, and that the teachings were there, and that he was shown tolerance and direction for the Dharma, he was like, oh, okay. Then he figured it out. And he said, okay. And it might seem like an easy thing for us. It's like, oh, I get it. And then he never stole anything again. But it took all of that for him to actually figure out the Dharma. And then it's something that, you know, for a lot of people it's really easy, okay, I'll take the precept of don't steal, and then they just don't do it. But he had a karma where he had to cause trouble. That was his karma. But through the Dharma, he was able to let go of that karma. So that's what we all do here. You know, someone might have a defilement of attention to another person, it's like, why are you so stupid? Right? But then we let them go through it. Yeah, it's like, so there's a level of acceptance. It's like if you have a 8th grade, no, 8 year old, 4th grade kid, son, and he always gets D's in math, let's say. So he's like, oh, he's got D's. You don't say, you're getting D's, and maybe he's going to get D's. But you don't get mad at him. You give him support. You know, I can tutor you in math, and maybe you can get that D up to a C. But also, he might just always get D's. D's nuts! I'm glad I'm talking to Shodan. Anyway, so there's actually tolerance in a Sangha for people with poor conduct. In Buddhist Sangha, there's this group of six monks, they called it the Gang of Six, and they were monks, I think, their whole lives, right? And they were known to be troublemakers. I'm like, oh, they were just ST1s for Pathways. My ST3s now, I for years would just talk shit about ST1s. Because they were a pain in the ass. So, if in your Dharma talks you guys are like, oh, I need to give an example of a pain in the ass and you want to use Kali Chakra? Well, if it's, you know, not blasphemy, if it's true. Not slander, if it's true. Anyway, so, um, you know, the Gang of Six would go around and they would like fuck with Buddhist monks to, uh, I don't know what reason. They would just fuck with them, mess with them, mess with... They're meditating and they would like push them over and stuff like that. I'm getting to a good place! And they'd be all, how's that now? And then they're all, ah! But Buddha tolerated them. I've never heard a story of Buddha kicking out any monk. And then, from tolerating, they can have an opportunity to transform. You know, we all have little troubles in ourselves that don't... I mean, if this was the pristine school of Buddhas, everyone would get kicked out. Get the fuck out! You had a bad thought, get the fuck out! You had a bad feeling, get the fuck out! You had an ego, get the fuck out so you know that's it just said you know something like who's gonna throw the first rock like someone who's who hasn't Or, you know, there's a Zen story I told before where, it was the sixth patriarch of Zen. Yesterday with a larger group, I'm like, the sixth lineage holder of Zen. I'm not going to use the word patriarch. See? Because it's not woke anymore. Sixth Patriarch of Zen had this story where there was this one monk who was a troublemaker, pissed everybody else off. Everyone was like, he just, he foul-mouthed, he stole things, he got his way, pushed over everybody else. He would just break every etiquette and be an asshole. One day, there was a normal monk who was like attending to the books of the monastery. And he was going through things. And there was, you know, the monastery, this was a big monastery, and they had money. You know, they had finances, and they had to be accounted for. So I guess this monk was accounting. And he found this like hidden book of numbers, of accountancy. And he looked it up and he found that this monk was actually getting paid to be there. The Zen master was paying him a large salary, large enough to make him not want to be in the world, but be in a monastery, but he really kind of would rather be in the world. And so he's all like, Master, why? He's like, oh, because it's good for him to be in the Dharma, and he needs money to be in the Sangha, and it's good for the monks to learn tolerance and patience and forgiveness. Which reminds me of Micah. Some of you guys suffered Micah? Some of us? Anyway, so Micah was this student of mine, and then as soon as she started yoga, she was all kind of okay, but as soon as she started yoga, she's going fucking crazy. And then I'm like, let's pay you more. Let's get you your own car. Oh, let's get you health insurance. And so she made more, she had a car, she had health insurance, no one else had that. And then eventually with the others, I'm like, you guys are just yogis. She just gets paid. And then she quit the sangha. And I'm like, yeah, why don't you just stay? It's kind of for the same reason, you know, but also, I was being very compassionate towards her. But, at the same time, I was like, she's such a pain. It's good yogic and mindfulness practice And then eventually that changes. So, we have to, you know, I mean, we have to always esteem for higher conduct and enlightened awareness, but we also have to understand that everything isn't going to be perfect. That things are going to be trouble. It's like if you look at O'Hia forest from far away. Looks like this perfect, beautiful forest. But if you walk into the forest, every tree is sideways or bent or funky. Like every tree is not, there's not one perfect tree. From far away, perfect forest. But if you get into the forest, where's the, all these trees, there's something funky and weird about them. That's kind of how a sangha is. It's not dysfunctional, but it's not perfect. It's not an idea of perfect. But it is perfect, but it's not the idea of perfect. So, we have the Sangha Org. And the Sangha org is a really wonderful thing. So I don't do management of the org anymore. I don't do administration of the org anymore. And I also don't even do the executive function in the org. The org used to be me, security, setup, registration, and...

0:28:54
TAC.

0:28:55
You know, that's the admin, CFO, everything else. And that was the org. That's how, you know, Rama's org was, too. But then we were in our second org 2.0, right? And the org is empowered to set the standards and the management and conditions of the Sangha. And I'm like, great! So when people got mad at Kalachakra, I was like, okay, so, org it! Organize! And then the org, you know, really reflected and said, hey, okay, wait, you know, even before we created these rules of conduct and we started creating structures for how we want this experience to be. And then when we have like rules of conduct, we have what we're gonna accept, what we're not gonna accept, and once it's stated, then somebody can say, Alright, I will follow the rules of conduct, or I won't. If I follow them, then I'm in the org. If I don't follow them, then there will be a consequence. And if I keep not following it, I'm seeing my own way out. I will go, break, consequence, break, I'm heading to the door. I'm going for the Haysha. It's a great thing to do. So if there's very clear rules of conduct, then it gives everybody a framework. And if someone breaks it, then they're going to get consequences, and if they keep doing it, they're going to see their own way out. You're not kicking them out. It's like in the Art of War. Master Sun Tzu was giving a demonstration, or he's talking about Art of War to this emperor, and the emperor goes, give me a demonstration with my concubines, 24 concubines. And then he gets them in line, and he's trying to teach them how to walk in formation or something. And then they don't, they're just all,

0:31:19
Huuuh!

0:31:20
And then he says, Hmm, if the rules are unclear, then it is the General's fault. So he says, I'm going to clearly tell you guys again what to do. And then he goes, Go. And then they go, Huuuh! And then he goes, and he says, you know, like several times, if it's unclear to you, if I've missed anything, I've been unclear, then it's my fault. And then he goes, now I've covered everything, so now do it. And then they just go, and he pulls out a sword and cuts one of their heads off. In fact, the Emperor's favorite concubine. And then, the Emperor's all like,

0:32:04
AHH!

0:32:06
And then, Shun Tzu says, Now get in line, and everyone gets in line.

0:32:12
And he goes,

0:32:14
There you go, there's your demonstration.

0:32:16
He's all, AHH! But, it's a very, you know, intense story, but it means that if people are doing whatever the fuck they want, if we have very strong rules of conduct, they follow it or they get the consequence. And if they keep getting consequences, it will lead to you're out of the school, but it's your own choice, because you don't want to do it. consequence for Kala Chakra. And I think it was so, like, beautifully written, compassionate, and like, an obviously doable consequence. And so, I think that that was done extremely well. It's not a punishment. Punishments don't work. If you punish someone, then they're just going to be sneaky about doing the same thing the next time. They'll be sneakier. So, punishments don't work. And this wasn't a punishment. Consequences are not punishment. The consequences that we try to do in the org have the intention of showing you something is wrong and that conduct needs to change, and then here's how we can see that you're changing. So it is to uplift the person who's having a hard time, and then makes it better for everyone. And this is more of a way of elevating things instead of punishing things. So there's that tribe in Africa, I've talked about this in satsangs in the past, where when someone does something wrong, they break a rule, they become a criminal or something, they don't say, fuck you, you did something wrong. They say, hey, here's the good things about you. It's such a better way. It's like with the monk who steals things. Well, I mean, they didn't do that. They were pissed. Kind of like you guys. But the Zen master was like, no, it's okay. This is how he learns Dharma. But then also, saying the good things about a person, it reminds them that the thing that they did bad is not all that they are. You get perspective. The person has a chance to grow from that. So, in that spirit, I have a writing assignment for Shodhans. Not all Shodhans, but any Shodhan who ever felt, because of all of this stuff that's If you felt anything bad or hurt or had trouble or difficulty, I want you to write down what it was. I want you to, um... I want you to then, uh, write down, like, all the things positive and constructive and awesome and wonderful that you've seen in Kalachakra about him. So I want you to write down, not a condemnation like, you're a fucking asshole, you're a jerk, you know, like I don't want you blaming him, I want you to write down what your experience of suffering was. And then I want you to say, I think you're really cool and nice. You stepped on me and it hurt, but you're a really cool person, you're really smart." And stuff like that. So there's two parts to the assignment and that's what I want you to do. And Kala Chakra is going to have more writing to do because I want Kala Chakra to reflect on each one of these assignments, and to practice bodhicitta and enlightenment, and then to answer it in a written assignment. And all of these assignments will be public for all showdowns to read. Because all of you guys got into a kerfuffle, and we're going to work our way out of this kerfuffle. We had a wrong speech. This is an assignment of right speech. So, if you want, you can be anonymous in your assignment. But if you put your name there, then Kala Chakra has to write down all the positive, good attributes and things about you. So, I'd like you to do this within a couple weeks for anyone who's got any suffering from Kala Chakra. And then with Kala Chakra, I don't want you to just hurry your way through this. take each one, consider it, write down a response that has the considerations of Bodhicitta and Enlightenment. And, you know, because if you just give it 10 seconds, hey, I want to see that you actually think through everyone's condition. The things that they're saying they were hurt by. That's the writing assignment. So, shodhans should, you know, you shouldn't just start blaming and getting angry and lose it. You should practice Dharma. I mean, you have all these teachings and transmissions of Dharma, you should say, well, I'm so upset, and you have to say, let me do bodhicitta for real. So, having, you know, this was not a really good thing, you know? Like, when... so what? You got mad at college hocker, I was... practiced Dharma. Like, I was like, the fuck are you guys doing? Weird. Weak, actually. Weak, and then you get mad at me. Like, wow, it's best you can do, huh? Well, I'm allowing you to do better. So, you know, like, a couple people who are arhats, and this is what I would expect, they were mad at Kalachakra, and then they used that situation to bring their enlightenment to it, and then it brought them to the next level of enlightenment. And that's a... those are good examples. But if you're just sitting there and just get pissed off and you're just like, I'm mad, I'm confused, I don't know what's going on, then you're not practicing Dharma at all. Yeah, so Kala Chakra, we're going through this, now we're going through this consideration of right speech, because wrong speech fucked everything up. The Kalachakra's attainment to the Sambhogakaya is fucking awesome! It's like, big! You know, I told you guys, like, you know, like, for those of you who've had Moksha, it's like, wow, enlightenment's real! Whoa! And then, when you go to Primary, you're like, well, that was just like, whatever, THIS is enlightenment! And you're like, primary, this is the real, real, real deal. And then, the Sambhoga enlightenment is like 10,000 times higher than that, when you get there, you're on. That's why he was all like, I'm fully enlightened, because you feel like it. But it's super amazing and I think that the dimensions of enlightenment that he is in is incredible. It's amazing to me. It's fantastic. It's like miraculous. So I would say, instead of being mad, you should use Kalachakra as an ally. And if you felt something difficult from him, you should try to work to transform that difficulty into the pathway of enlightenment. And then I think that because he is actually enlightened and has an enlightened force, part of his enlightened force is a wrathful And if you can make that an ally, it can bring you into enlightenment. So, I would say practice dharma and recognize that he did attain the sambhogakaya, and that's a much higher attainment, and if you can ally with that, it can be a great force of liberation. So, I want to see enlightened conduct. I want you guys to do right speech, right action, you know? And I want to see your show-dons, you should be really, really awesome to each other. And, you know, a show-don, you should be polite, positive. We actually have a really wonderful Sangha. Like I told you, I was in a Sangha full of people acting like Kalachakra before his liberation. And they were worse! They were like, stronger, like I didn't teach you guys occultism. They were doing occultism, not just basic sorcery. It was a mess. So this is a very, very, very, very powerful, positive Sangha. So I want to seek enlightened conduct. That's what we should do for each other. And for Kala Chakra, we're like, okay, you know, we accept your apology, and we're wiping the slate clean, moving on. We love your... his intent, his intentions, where he wants to go and this dharma that he sees is so beautiful for the sangha and all of us. So we're like, cool, let's go with that. And then we're looking at you, and we're like, where's your enlightened conduct? We're like, we're all eyes are on you. Because if you're enlightened, you should engender light, happiness, joy, power for everyone who comes across you. Right? You should, like, people come to me with some trouble, I always bring it up. I stop trouble, I make things happier, brighter, more powerful. That's my enlightened conduct. So all eyes are on Kala Chakra, we're all, cool, do it, Do it! You're on stage! Let's see you make us feel... I mean, you should feel good when you're working with people. You should feel good talking to people. You shouldn't feel overpowered or anything like that, right? So, if you have enlightenment, and you can't get it out into your conduct, you don't have right action, right speech, then you are very unintegrated. You might have a good samadhi, but your enlightenment is not integrated into your conduct, your action, and your speech. So, everyone should have an enlightened conduct, and then we should, you know, look at Kala Chakra and see how he does. How he takes his higher enlightenment and manifests it as enlightened conduct. That's what we want to do. So, for example, Kala Chakra quit doing drugs. So, after his liberation, he's like, yeah, no drugs. Now, you guys remember there was a Shodan call, I'm really suffering from it, and then as part of his enlightened conduct after his liberation, he's like, no more drugs. So that's a good thing. That's a super positive thing. That's the kind of direction of enlightened conduct. But I also wanted to talk about drugs a little bit. So, um, drugs are bad. Um, ha ha ha. So, I know that some of you do drugs, and I wanted to just talk about drugs. So, um, you know, the party line of our school is that we don't do drugs. But I know that some of you do. And when you're a Shodan or an Arhat, you can do drugs, but you have to see that it's balanced for you. You know, Buddha said, don't do intoxicants. So that's one of the five precepts, don't do intoxicants. And I'm all like, but I love me some Chardonnay. So I break that rule like crazy and I like that. I'm like, this is how I am enlightened. I'm enlightened with a glass of chardonnay. I'll take my enlightenment with a chablis. And that's it. I don't know. So that's fine. Also, you know, caffeine. Rama always used to say, caffeine's a good drug. And a lot of people find that when they do caffeine, it helps them concentrate, meditate, focus on work. Some people take caffeine and they get all jittery and they feel horrible. Some people will drink wine and it'll get them to relax, chill out, not be so tense, let go of tension. So you have to, and then some people drink a glass of wine and go, getting a fight, so crazy, you know, do terrible things. So whether it's caffeine or wine, you have to find where's it, what's the balance for you. And then some of you are doing other drugs, you have to consider them. Like some people do marijuana, and it gives you, it gets you to chill out if you like that feeling, and you can do it with balance, and not overdo it. Abuse is not good, but if you, if it works for you, that's fine. Rama in the very beginning, he took students to the gorge and they did LSD because he wanted them to go past the first attention and uh, hallucinogenics, they open the second attention automatically. And then the thing is that mostly people just go to whatever happens, but Rama started directing their second attention, so that they were like, wow, whoa! So he was elevating them. And then after a while he said, yeah, you don't even need that. He started developing stronger Siddha powers, so he's like, I can just sit here and, you know, like, turn into a light or disappear and they get the same effect. I can shift their second attention without them having to do the drugs. So when I got into the study, Rama was just like, no drugs. And I was like, what are drugs? Oh, I didn't even do coffee at that point. So, you know, the thing is that you have to be careful because drugs are a slippery slope. If you start doing them, different drugs can get you into samskaras. Even marijuana can start getting you stuck in samskaras. Even alcohol can get you stuck in samskaras. So, if you're suffering from sunstaras, I would say don't do drugs. But if you find some balance, you know, and if it works for you, you can do it yourself. Never do it with anyone below Shodan. No Bodons, no students or anything. If you do that, that is really bad. Because they're not ready for that level of agency. They don't have enough personal power to be able to determine if they should manage this for their spiritual path. So just don't do that. If you want to hang out with a showed-on friend, that's fine, but never a boat on, never a new student. Our party line of our school is no drugs. Drugs bite. Okay, that's drugs. So Shiva Shakti, you know, got mad and she talked to me a lot. So I told her, you know, I know this is going to be hard for you, leaving, so I'm going to leave a commu- you can communicate with me and I will help you. But I said, yeah, but have the etiquette of don't talk to the rest of my students. And she's like, oh, OK. So then she immediately breaks that etiquette. But I was doing something where if she has a one-on-one talk with me, I could help her. But when she's getting all this information from all these different people, then I can't help her move on, go on to the next thing that she wants to do. So that's why I said, just stop. Because when someone quits the study, not after their beginners come and go, but like after their like both on level, if they quit the study, what they do is they go through this tremendous ego battle. And it's like they're a drowning person. And they'll be like reaching out, trying to grab onto you. And then they'll also be attacking. So they're trying to do everything, the ego's going crazy and the ego's winning, and so the ego acts as horrible as it can. And so when I have her, just me and her, I can deal with it, but then if you guys open up to her, then she's like hitting me from different sides. So the thing is that she's a very occult person and she does occultism. And so she attacked me with occultism. And because you guys weren't tight, like if you just shut the door, I could deal with her, get her on in a positive way. Because I could have also just been all like, you quit, get the fuck out, never gonna talk

0:53:59
to you again.

0:54:00
Be happy. You know, if someone quits, a showdown, if a showdown quits, cut the line, shut the door, don't talk to them. Because let them do whatever they want to do. This is a tight-knit spiritual community, and if you have a tie to them, then what it does is it opens their energy to this school. They get energy out of it, they get energy out of you, and then they get energy out of me and then they can, like, their bad thoughts still hit me, because it's coming from you. Rama kicked out students who did that. Like there was this one guy, his father was mad at Rama, because he's like, oh, I think you're in a cult. This guy was with Rama for a number of years, was an ST1, very successful, very successful student. And Rama was like, you're a very good student, but you're unable to cut the line with your father, so you can't be in my school. I just get hit from your father through you all the time. So it's just not right. So Rama kicked it out. Yeah. So my one, I have little caveats for that. So it's like, if you knew the person before the Sangha, I'm like, okay, you can continue with that. Or like, you know, if, you know, like, if there's a relationship, like with Adiparashakti and Satoru Yama, okay, that's cool. So there's certain instances where it's acceptable, it falls into a balance. But in general, if a shodan leaves, cut the line right away. Close the door right away. It's proper etiquette. And if they're leaving, they want to go do something different. And if they're always trying to come back and pull on you and know what's going on in the sangha, trying to get the energy from the sangha, they're not going to move forward with why they left. So it doesn't help them. And it doesn't help you. It doesn't help me. It doesn't help the school. So be an impeccable showdown, and if a showdown leaves, then say, Mazel Tov, wish you well, have a Allsat Sun on the 5th, I have some teachings for some Bodhans. Yeah, but on the 16th I fly to India, taking the first round of Hungarian students to Bangalore, South I think we're not going to get Rishikesh. We're just going to do Tiru. Because I have the Bangalore song. Maybe someday we'll go to Rishikesh. Rishikesh is nice. It will be an experience. And then, on the 16th I fly to India, and then I come around to Hungary, and then Paris, and then California, and then here. I'll get here I think the day before the solstice. So we're going to do the solstice here, and then Christmas, and New Year's Eve, and stuff like that. So I'm kind of doing my Euro tour backwards, and including India in it. Crazy. Anyway, any questions?

0:57:44
Cool. Cool. Come find me back.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
