0:00:00
Really happy to be here again to see you guys. See great old friends who we've been through some wars, right? And I'm like, you know, we had to go, we gotta go through what we gotta go through. We always love each other and then we work together. Yeah, right? Now, I'm just gonna point this out. I'm just gonna start like saying stuff. Now, I'm just going to point this out.

0:00:26
I'm just going to start saying stuff. I was like, hey, times are difficult, but come to Hawaii and just start building the mandalas. Cool, sounds like a good idea. Then he comes, and then I'm like, by the way, I just dropped you into a gigantic yoga. I never really did yoga. gigantic yoga and you're like I never really did yoga but you were like super powerful super successful super great and the work that you did was really good but it was really hard right but let me tell you this you guys know Zen yeah Zen is one of the most amazing technologists I've ever met And when he first came to Hawaii, he's like, I'm an amazing technologist, I have my own company, I've just done all this stuff.

0:01:23
He's like, so you guys are doing some software, I can help out. And I said, cool, we have this one customer that has a little job that would take me, I'm like, it'd take me about an hour to code this. And I said, so here's what we need. He said, that'll take me five minutes. And I was like, cool. And then because he was doing yoga, he's all, ugh. He went through so much trouble. And then six months later, he actually finished coding it. It took him actually five minutes, because he's so smart. I was checking him for 5 minutes because he's so smart.

0:02:06
I'm like, oh wow, you're smarter than me. So going through yoga, if you're in a yoga, if you're in a dharma environment, it's not easy. So you were this super strong, amazing person. You're like, I can build anything. And you're like, I could build anything. My mom, come to Hawaii. And then it was hard, right? But you did really well. You built my room. And I love it, by the way.

0:02:39
Every day I'm there, I'm like, this is beautiful. So you didn't do bad, but you know how hard it is. I'll take it. Yeah, yeah. And then you get stronger Yeah, yeah, and then and then and then he gets stronger and everything that you do here You just do it from the heart. You just say here's how I can help Good for you Yeah, we just started no that was the soft sir you so welcome to interview with an arhant episode 8 oh This is episode eight.

0:03:14
Oh, okay. It should have been episode one but you know, we had to, we had to warm up and discover the format. So this is an informal chat about one's pathway to enlightenment. And I think we've heard many of the beats of that story probably most of the people in the room have heard none of them. and just hear what some of the you know flagship moments in your path to enlightenment were. Starting with my favorite, what was your sangha origin story? Oh my goodness, wait, wait, me starting my sangha or being part of my? No, being part joining your song like you're a student, you're in San Francisco, age 19, yeah, don't know nothing about nothing. How does enlightenment enter the picture for you? Sue Young, my, my, yeah. So some of you know Sue.

0:04:05
Sue was my mentor and she is amazing. As you know, if you ever have some trouble that you can't figure out and you want to work through it and you don't want to listen to me, go to Sue. She will be your one-on-one buddy and tell you how to get through all that shit. She's amazing. Okay. how to get through all that shit she's amazing okay yeah I'll say Marson meditated anybody seat to do yoga but I don't feel like it or you get sex infects go to see okay anyway um so I was 19 and I was in the Guardian Angels You showed up.

0:04:50
The Guardian Angels are what? Guardian Angels is a safety patrol group. They're from New York originally, but then they became a nationwide phenomenon. The Guardian Angels, I grew up in the hood where everyone was a gangster. And everything, you know, like if you grew up in a gang place, you go into gangs. And I was like, hmm. And I remember my brother went into the gangs when he was like 15. And I was like, you know, we both, somehow me and him did martial arts since we were little kids, but he went into the gangs. And I was like, I kind of don't like it.

0:05:36
the gangs and I was like I kind of don't like it you know I mean but it was the prevalent power so it was drawing me into into it and then um I remember I was driving down the street with my mom I saw a guardian angels on in the mission district and I was like I was like what gang is that mom she's like those are the guardian angels they help people and they have those little red guardian angels, they help people. They have those little red berets. They're very distinctive. That's so silly. Is there another guardian angel? Anyway, don't look, don't look them up, they're idiots.

0:06:14
But I was one of them. Okay, anyway, so um, I was like, what? There's, I was like, I thought they were, I thought they were a gang, and she's like, no, they're, there's this group that helps people. I knew this is a group that helps people I knew them back in New York, my mom's from New York, she's like so these people help people. I was like huh. And then I was getting a lot of pressure from my neighborhood to join a gang. I was like hmm I saw the gang members in my neighborhood I mean they're all powerful I mean they're all powerful people in my group.

0:06:54
I mean there's like the bigger dudes and they're like, yo, you should join a gang, because that's what we do. Look after each other. I'm like, you guys just beat the shit out of each other and like hurt each other and stuff. And I'm like, the guardian angels, like, I was like, they do something different. They help people. They do something different. They help people. So, I was like, okay.

0:07:19
I don't want to be in my neighborhood gang, so I moved over to a worse neighborhood. And I met the guardian angels and I said, hey, I want to be a guardian angel. So, I was 16. And that's when you can start joining, they're like, okay. And then I was there until I was 19. And during that time, I went through a lot of experience and I also became the martial arts instructor because I did martial arts since I was six. By a lot of experience, you mean a lot of street fights. Yeah.

0:07:56
Yeah. Yeah, I had almost like a hundred street fights and a lot of experience. and a lot of experience. You know, a lot. I mean 100 street fights is a big deal. That's to put it politely. And then one day I was the martial arts trainer and assistant chapter and assistant chapter leader because I'm a very talented martial arts like they noticed that because like I was six when I started martial arts I was 16 when I joined them and I was a good fighter at 16 and really good martial artist and then I was like and then when we got in fights and then they're like well they're like, well, they're like, there's some big guys and strong guys.

0:08:52
And then they're this little, whatever I am sparks off and I can bam, fight. They're like, whoa. I'm like, cause I trained, you know, when I trained martial arts, I trained six hours a day on a school night. I stood in horse two hours a day on a good day, one hour on a bad day. horse two hours a day on a good day one hour on a bad day um and and then on weekends and and freaking you know holidays it was 10-12 hours a day of training i was like i live my life for training so i trained i became something unusually special because i focused on it completely unusually special because I focused on it completely.

0:09:41
And if you stand in horse two hours a day, you're gonna get a power, it's set a power, where you can knock people down, like you never know. You know, it's like, you can, like I faced, I have so many stories of facing many guys right out of San Quentin with a baseball bat and everything, you know, bigger, stronger, whatever. baseball bat and everything, bigger, stronger, whatever. And I'm like, here's my martial arts, boom. And I could beat them.

0:10:10
That's what martial arts is. Okay, anyway, so I was good. And then, and I got brought up in the organization to be the martial arts trainer because I won the most fights. We went into a lot of fights. Guardian Angels, we were in a neighborhood place. Guardian Angels, we were in a neighborhood where there was four gangs and we didn't have weapons and they did. And we were breaking down their business because they wanted to sell drugs and they had trouble with us. So it was a big battle. And I had friends who were shot or stabbed.

0:10:48
One day, you know, I was a veteran in this group, I was 19. Three years, lots of experience. And then this 110 pound white lady shows up. And I'm like, are you lost? Like, it's dangerous around here. I'm like, it's dangerous around here. She's like, no, I'm going to join your group. And then I was like, well, why? She's like, well, you know, so she's like, I have a black belt in Taekwondo and I have all your martial artists.

0:11:31
Lots of martial artists would join our group. So I'm like, and the women who joined our group, none of them were martial artists. And the women who joined our group, none of them were martial artists. There's very few women, but the ones who came in, they were all like super gangster. They were like scarier than most of the guys. They had so much... I was like, oh, you're like some of those guys. Martial artists. And she was a good one. TKAD, black belt, good technique.

0:12:01
That's not true. about good technique. Anyway, so she joins and I was like, you're going to be my, like we would always go in the group and we were always in pairs. I'm like, I'm like, like if you joined I'd be all, you're going to be with me, I'm going to take care of you. I'm like, I've been here. because you're white well you look white she looked white too i was like oh i was like oh and she drove up in a mercedes i was like what do you do she's like i'm a computer programmer and i'm like that sounds so stupid and like why are you here she's like i want to my teacher taught me i should teacher taught me I should work on my martial arts. I was like, okay.

0:12:57
And then I was like, here, you and me are going to be paired up because, you know, I'm concerned about you. And we had a few adventures. And then I would also go every Saturday night, Sunday night or something to the Sacramento chapter and I would go train them because they were lamer than us in San Francisco. And then one day she's like, hey, can I drive you up? Cause I used to get on a bus and a train and a bus to go up there. Cause we were all broken poors. And she's like, hey, I'll drive, if I can come up, I'll drive you in my Mercedes.

0:13:54
I was like, okay. You had me at Mercedes. And then I go up with her. And then I go up with her and on the way she's like, do you meditate? And I'm like, every day. She's like, really? I'm like, yeah. I'm like, I train martial arts like crazy. I do Tai Chi, I do Qi Gong, I meditate. She's like, what's your meditation like?

0:14:12
I'm like, well, it's usually at the end of the night when I'm really tired, I sit down sit down and watch TV and focus on my Dan Tian until I fall asleep. She's like, you call that meditation? I'm all, yeah, like I'm like, is that what meditation is? She's like, and then on the drive up, she's all, let me, let me show you what meditation is. I'm like, all right. So we get off on the highway, walk out into a field, the edge of the highway, some group the edge of the highway and then she's like okay focus on your navel let me show you because she was a master she's strong right she's for real she's the for real deal like my Abbott's or my showdown they're for real she was a showdown now she wasn't even showed on yet she's like you guys anyway you guys are good too she sat there with me and she's like focus on your navel yeah I do She sat there with me and she's like, focus on your navel.

0:15:16
I'm like, yeah, I do that all the time. And we sat just for like five minutes. Then afterwards I was like, hmm. I was like, being a martial artist, I noticed something different. Like I had some subtlety, and I was also into Chinese medicine. I was like, really? I was like, hey, I was like, what was that? really I was like hey I was like what was what was that and she's like I have an elite teacher it's different it's not the same it's not what you think it is and I was like what are you talking about and she started saying all the stuff about the Bhagavad Gita and so I was just like what's that I was like but what happened when we sat because I know meditation martial arts all sorts I know meditation, martial arts, all sorts of things.

0:16:05
And I'm like, but when I sat with you, I was like, I definitely noticed something. She's like, yeah, because of, and then she started talking about all this like spiritual stuff. And like, she was talking about like the Guddas and all sorts of stuff. And I was like, I don't even understand what you're talking about. Like I didn't, she talked to me for like four hours up talked about. Like I didn't, she talked to me for like four hours up and four hours back, saying all the spiritual stuff and I was like, I don't know what you're talking about.

0:16:37
And then she's like, then I, you know, she was in the garden just for a while, I'm like, go away, just hang out with me, someone tries to hurt you, I'll take care of it. And then she's care of it and then she's also you know good fighter and stuff and we had a little little little little trouble but one day she said so you know I said it happened in light and detail and it's like she said this is unprecedented because he never takes new students and he only was with I'm going to take new students and he only was with his students for the past 10 years but now he is allowing new students to come see him. Not students, just new people to see him which wouldn't happen for the past 10 years. I'm like, cool, sounds good. I had a big reverence for enlightenment.

0:17:35
I just was like, oh yeah, enlightenment is a big deal. I just was like, oh yeah, enlightenment's a big deal. I didn't know what it was. I respected everything I ever heard about Buddha and Jesus. I was very respectful to spirituality, but I just was more into martial arts. And then she said, yeah, okay, so if you wanna come, she's like, we're gonna, you have this super special opportunity to see him. we're gonna you have this super special opportunity to see him it's so unusual he hasn't seen anyone new for 10 years and she said you can come but it's in Los Angeles I don't know if I can walk that far I'll fly you down because I was broke I didn't have any money she said I'll fly you down and I was like okay cool She's like, I'll fly you down.

0:18:26
And I was like, okay, cool. And she's like, and you have to wear a tuxedo. I was like, what? And then she's like, yeah, you gotta wear a tuxedo. I'm like, oh, okay. And then she's like, yeah, and it's at the Beverly Hills Four Seasons. And I'm like, what? And she's like, yeah, it's like a really special thing. And so yeah, it's like a really special thing. And I was like, okay.

0:18:53
And then, we went down there, put on a tuxedo, went to the Burntfield Hills Four Seasons, and I was like, this is not like Bodie Woods. I would have been fine in Bodie Woods, but that was like, when I got there, I was looking at all these people wearing fall gowns and tuxedos, ball gowns and tuxedos and I was like, I was like, oh, this is a cult. I was like, oh, that's what it is.

0:19:21
I totally like believed her about everything she was saying about everything being cool and her like, like I heard all her stories. And then, you know, walked around the streets, the dirty streets of San Francisco. And then I got there and I was like, oh, it's a fucking cult. And these are like, they're gonna brainwash me and make me go crazy. are like they're gonna brainwash me and make me go crazy. Because you know that's what it was.

0:19:42
And then it worked. Just kidding. Anyway so I was just like oh come on. So you know like once you're sitting there everyone's wearing like all these nice clothes and you're at the four seasons you're like oh wait a second this is just some ridiculous weird thing. And then um yeah then It was a weird thing. And then, yeah, and Rama showed up. And I was like, well, here's the one thing. We're hanging around in the garden. And they always had the drink of the night. And they didn't have, they had no wine, no alcohol, anything, but they had the special drinks.

0:20:22
So I remember the first night, it was like this peach fizzy thing. And then they're all, drink this. It was like this peach fizzy thing. And then they're all, drink this. I'm like, oh yeah, right. Because I'm like, I'm a martial artist. I'm like, you think I'm going to drink this? Because this is where your LSD is, right? Or something.

0:20:39
I was like, oh. So I was hanging out with people. And I was like, poured it into the plant. And I was like, oh, that was a great drink. Anyway, and then I hung out with them. oh that was a great drink! Anyway and then I hung out with them and the first time I saw Rama I was just like, so I didn't have the drink, so I knew that I wasn't on drugs. I did wonder if they were blowing some something into the room because you know you feel like a little bit of the air conditioning. I'm like do they put drugs in the air? You know I'm a careful person but anyway I you know I'm a careful person but anyway I was like I saw Rama and I saw the light and I was like and he was powerful and strong. Do you remember what the first teaching was about? It was about enlightenment. So in this solid yeah in in this teaching it was I was one of solid yeah in this teaching it was i was one of the first me and 11 other st2s were the first st2s oh yeah and he was talking to us he was talking about enlightenment he's like let me tell you what enlightenment is i was like and he and oh it's just amazing teaching i was like hmm it was just amazing teaching. I was like hmm and and then he said I was wondering if you guys have any questions and I said yeah I got a question. He's like um so the lady who brought me here she's a black belt like so like isn't Buddhism against violence and he's all no.

0:22:24
like isn't buddhism against violence and he's all no i was like what that's just it's conceptually weird to me but i was like huh and then you start talking about like the shaolin monks and like how actually he just gave this amazing talk and i was like i was like somehow i automatically agree with I automatically agree with that. Because I mean as soon as you say Shaolin monks like and I'm all into martial arts and kung fu so I'm like how can I disagree but it just and it clicked so much deeper it hit so many past lives all the way to like Hyperborea like ancient ancient ancient times you guys don't know what Hyrule Gory is. Maybe you guys shouldn't know. So it's Scratch and Itch and then what was the like outcome of that evening? Was it like yeah I'm all in, who's this weird white dude? Oh yeah I'm in. Yeah I was like I was very very skeptical going in but once skeptical going in but once I saw him I saw his I saw this golden light and then she's all like do you see his aura? And then he kept teaching and then she's all do you see how he's changing?

0:23:51
She was just like do you see how he's changing your attention? And I'm like wow what the fuck's happening? So I definitely, I saw what was going on and she was also on top of it showing me like, did you notice this and this? And then I said, I mean that night I was just like, I was like, this is what I'm doing. How long from there until you became a student student? That must have been later if you were in the first 11. a student student. That must have been later if you're 11. I was one of the first ST2s and it was it wasn't until like a couple years later where he said and and there were more and more ST2s so maybe there was like 50 of us and then he said all right I'm gonna let you I'm gonna bring you guys on and you can you can apply to be a student. So up until then you were still working with Sue So up until then you were still working with Sue as your primary mentor?

0:24:52
What was the structure? Yeah, it was Sue was my teacher. And then I would be able to go see Rama like once every couple months somewhere like in LA or San Francisco or something. So this was pre-New York then. Oh wait. So you're still in San Francisco, you're doing the structure. So which, I guess, which came first? Security, New York move, tech job. So you're doing the structure.

0:25:14
So which, I guess, which came first, security, New York move, tech job? Okay, good question. Okay, so for me, it was all first, this wonderful experience to see Rama. And then I started to get invited to security training because they were like, because they were like, Sue was Rama's black belt on security team. And she was all, and she told the security group, there's this, there's this dude who's like this new ST2, and he's so fucking good.

0:25:54
And then they're all- Was it just you at this point or is it like Shakti, Yagnikala, none of them yet? It was just me. Yeah, it was way before Shakti and Yagnikala. And they were like, they're like, way before Sharknado and Nogzinco and they were like, they're like, hmm, so he's a martial arts guy that like, is cool? And she's like, yeah. And then they were like, okay, they invited me to a security training. There's like six of them in the Bay Area. And they're bodyguards. I was like, wow, cool. And then they're like, so, um, and they're like, so, you know, the guardian angels, what do you guys do in this circumstance, or this circumstance? I was like, here's what we do.

0:26:39
And here's that, I'm like, you guys have never done this? Because luckily no one ever attacked Rama. But I'm like, I've been through everything. I've been through guns, knives, everything. So I'm like, so, they're like, what happens if you do this? guns, knives, everything. So I'm like, so they're like, what happens if you do this? I'm like, here's what I did. And then they were like, boom, so cool. So let's see, from the Guardian Angel experience, the previous Guardian Angel martial arts trainer, who And then what I taught in the Guardian Angels, because in the Guardian Angels I'm like, I take a brigade out and I'm like, we have to live. People are going to pull guns and knives and here's how we deal with it. Here's how we deal with when there's four of us against 40 people. Like we did that. Like we lived that. And when they were like, how do we deal with this, this, and we're trying to help our enlightened teacher, what if someone did this?

0:27:48
I'm like, let me tell you, because I've done that. It's been there. And then anyway, so then I became very good friends with the security team. But you're not on security. You're like an informal advisor. I was an informal advisor. You're like an informal advisor. I was an informal advisor. So I did martial arts for a long time. And then this one girl, this one new girl named Heather, she was a third degree black belt in karate.

0:28:17
And Ramo was like, oh, you're a third degree black belt, so you want to be on security? She's all, I guess so. So the first time I talked, I was all, hmm. I was like, why can't I be on security? I was like, why can't I be on security? Because I'm supporting your security team and I can beat up your whole security team. And then eventually, you were almost like, well, you have to get a black belt.

0:28:42
I was like, I crush black belts. There's a tone now in it. And he's like, no, there's a tonal in it. It's not just, so it's not just fighting because you can be a big gorilla. He's like, there's a tonal, it's noble. And I was like, oh. So I was like, so then my mentor is like, comes to my Taekwondo dojo and she's like, she's like, I'll give you teachings.

0:29:12
Here's a fast time to get a black belt. So I got a black belt super fast. teachings here's a fast time to get a black belt so i got a black belt super fast like i mean three months because that was a competition black belt right oh no no that was the next one the first one was taekwondo and i was just like you know you know one kung fu form takes like seven or eight minutes to do and i knew 28 forms and weapons and all that stuff and I knew 28 forms and weapons and all that stuff and then like you know if you go to like a karate or taekwondo it's like two minute form right so I'm like and so much kung fu is so woo and karate is just so yeah so I was like I'm like I learned that stuff in like a week I mean like there's nine kata's right yeah there's nine katas right yeah anyway so i i learned it and then i got my taekwondo the my mentor was like let me teach you the forms because you're really good go to the school and say that you're a brown belt and then just show that you're so good and then the next teaching was six months later i mean the next black belt i was like i one i could beat your black belt and I was like, one, I could beat your black belt, two, I know your forms, three, I say you're a brown belt, so then I get a black belt.

0:30:34
Okay, and then I went to Shotokan, because I'm wrong, I said, you gotta go to Shotokan, and then I got a Shotokan black belt, and like, is he communicating to you directly, or is this through suit? It's all through suit. Yeah. Were you a beginner student at this stage? Yeah, I was. You're not even like at a student's level.

0:30:50
I wasn't even a student. Oh! You're just around. Yeah, I'm not even like a student. I wasn't even a student. Oh You're just around I was just like hanging around and then you actually joined and you became a student Then you became a beginner student that time or I got a security before of a student Then then that was your competition. Yeah. Yeah that yeah, so that one was I was your competition. Yeah, so that one was I had my TKD black belt and then I went and got I went to a Shotokan dojo. Romma said to Shotokan I went to Shotokan. That was pretty funny because And in that school, my sensei said, you're really good.

0:31:40
And he was in this group, a network outside of, it was multiple dojos. And there was this group in the Bay Area called the Asian Knights. And the Asian Knights were Asians who fought in tournaments. And they were a group, and they were karate, taekwondo, group and they were like they were karate taekwondo and they were just called the Asian Knights and if you're one of the Asian Knights is a really high group and when you go to the tournament and you're like I'm one of the Asian Knights everyone's all oh shit this is difficult competition.

0:32:19
Were these the blocking guys? No no okay no not even that yet that gets to New York but so I was in the school and I'm not yet, that gets to New York. But, so I was in this school and my sensei was one of the Asian knights and he was really into sparring and I was just, I was really, I'm like, I beat my sensei and he was like, whoa. He's like, you're so good. He's like, you should join the Asian knights and I'm all, cool, I'm down for that.

0:32:48
the Asian Knights and I'm all cool I'm down for that except for I'm not Asian. And I'm like no. He's like dude you look Asian. I'm like I don't feel Asian. Anyway so I joined the Asian Knights and I went to a competition and he said he said if you if you win you know in the top three I'll give you your black belt you win, you know, in the top three, I'll give you your black belt. Because I was a white belt in school. This is, you know, I was there for a few months, then. And then I did that competition representing my school and the Asian Knights, you know, Filipino or something like that. They're just like, you're one of They were just like, you're one of the eight of knights. And I was like kicking people's asses.

0:33:40
And then, you know, I won like six or eight fights and I got to the last fight. And this is my first tournament, by the way. It was hilarious. I mean, I was like, okay, so don't actually hurt people, but just like kind of go like that. I was like, okay. So I was like that. And I got, you know, like, it was really pretty bad I was like, and I got, you know, like, it was really pretty bad.

0:34:05
Cause my first tournament, I didn't understand the etiquette of the tournament. So I won all my fights and I got to the last fight. And then I was like, you know, I remember I got 1.2 points and then the third point. And after the third point, I just had, it's just a silly, like you're supposed to like, like hit someone and the judges have to say break like hit someone and the judges have to say break and you have to say you bow and stuff like that. I didn't get all that bowing stuff so I didn't bow and I was just like yeah I did it.

0:34:37
And then after I won the third point I went over to my sensei and gave him a big high five. He high-fived me back he was happy about it. The judges were like I hit the guy first and he hit me second, and they gave him the point. Anyway, he won. But my sense of, yeah, you really want that so I got second place. Rama accepted me. He said, you are my security. And I had some insecurity. I was like, really? I really, I was like, I don't know if I'm a real black belt, but that's what Rama said. I was like super freaking out. I was like, oh, I don't know. Because there's this other this other dojo I was going to where there's this guy who's a first-degree black belt. Every Saturday night we would get together, a bunch of us, and we'd do sparring. And I was just there to learn. I was just learning from him.

0:35:54
He was showing different techniques. I was learning. I wasn't pushing it. I was just learning. And then I got my black belt and I showed up with a black belt. And then I got my black belt and I showed up with a black belt and he's like, you wore a white belt like four months ago. I'm like, what? I'm in a black belt. And he's like, you're a fake black belt. No. He totally dissed me. And I was like, well, I'm going to be for real. gonna be for real and then I just beat the shit out of him and then he was really not happy and didn't invite me back but we weren't there for a long time and I was like so but because of what he said even though I could definitely beat him I was like oh he's like eat it and should take you ten I go, he's like, eat it.

0:36:50
It should take you 10 years to get a black belt. I feel bad. That's bad. Yeah, I felt bad. So now you're on security. You're not even officially a student yet. What's the transition from student to New York this way? How long was this? Is this like two years before New York? Yeah, so let's see.

0:37:09
It took me about two years to get on security. And then shortly after being on security, And then shortly after being on security, then Rama said, all right, there's a hundred of you ST2 types, and you can join if you want to. And you have to like, you know, make an application, write lots of stuff, and then show up in the Ansibar, in the gorge. I got from the gorge and he said if you show up in the gorge I will consider you and so there's a whole bunch of us we showed up to the gorge and he gave us consideration and then he accepted about I think 40 percent of the people the rest he said I don't know what happened to him.

0:38:03
But um, you know, he was so particular. He kicked students out all the time. I never did that. I get you to just quit. I just get, I just, I just felt like, so he did that eventually with the SC2s. He was like, he used to kick out SC1s like all like, he's like, get out of here, kick you out, kick you out, and all this stuff. you out, kick you out and all this stuff. But then with the ST2 he got smarter. He's like, oh I'm just going to make it harder. It's like you just have to come up to here and then people will just fall out because they don't have enough personal power. So that's what he ended up doing at the end of his life and that's what I learned and that's what I do to my students. Did I ever Yeah, I'm such a good martial artist.

0:38:51
I love seeing these kind of things. I don't kick anyone out, I just make things hard. I just go like this, like if you're painting the ass to me, then I'll go like this. And you're like, uh huh. I'm all mad all of a sudden, and I'm like... And I was like, anyway, so yeah so then, so it's a 40% in the gorge yeah yeah consider or now you're a student. Oh, yeah, we. So, after a desert trip he gave a full desert trip. He said, all right, it was after that summer solstice in San Francisco and all students from LA, Boston, New York, we all met in San Francisco. And he's like, all right, he's like, this is 40% of who was in the gorge. You guys are accepted students.

0:39:54
And we're all like, yay. And then he's all, but no, it's actually, that's where like, it was the honeymoon period. No, it's, and actually that's where like, it was the honeymoon period. So he's, he was nice, funny, happy. It was jolly for about, you know, almost a year. And then he's like, well, you guys have to move to New York. So you've been around like three years now at this point? Yeah. Okay. Exactly.

0:40:23
I was there for three years. Yeah, it was about, you know, two years where I wasn't, it's been two and a half years, yeah it was about you know two years where I wasn't a student two and a half years I wasn't a student and like who else like who's your pod during this like is Shakti around here like they're not even in here yet yeah Shakti came in after I was there for a couple years yeah yeah Shakti and another good kung fu buddy John did they came for you so did you start a big dog? no I mean I said Did they come to you? So did you start a big talk? No! I said, hey here's Sue. Oh!

0:40:55
I didn't teach them nothing. I was like... Cause you knew Shakti before, but not like Boudreau or anyone else. These are all people you met through this. Yeah, they were all... Boudreau was all New York. There was like... There was a hundred people who I met. I didn't really know any of them until New York. there's a hundred people who I met it didn't really know any of them until New York because then New York after about after about three years when when we moved to New York my mom was like this is where we start yoga. What's yoga? Yoga sounds stupid. Did he actually have this structure Did he actually have this structure, like beginner, student, intermediate?

0:41:41
Yep. So, yeah, the ST1s are intermediate, and we were beginners. Until you started yoga, or just being a... Oh, yeah, even, we started yoga, we were not intermediate, we were beginners doing yoga. So were you on a yoga first, or did you have to get a job first? Because this is like where you were working at Friendly's in New York. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, exactly. No, we yeah we did. We did easy peasy yoga, even before getting a job. So just silly things like trying to do something on a computer, but you didn't even know. And we were so we were so retarded. We're so banal.

0:42:24
Can you share the bus story about how you get your first tech job? Because did that happen first or were you on yoga first? Definitely on yoga first. Okay. Doing some silly, goofy yoga projects where I don't know what the hell's going on. I was so confused. And then, yeah, and then I worked at like Friendly's, which is like Denny's, and Pizza Hut. I was just trying to get by. And then, you know, oh yeah, and by the way, there's another part.

0:42:48
And, you know, oh yeah, and by the way, there's another part. Even before I became a student, I was like, Raman said, go to a tech school, a computer learning center and get your, it's a bootcamp, six months, get your certificate and get a job. I flunked out. I just failed at it. And I was just like, I don't know how I'm gonna go forward.

0:43:12
And I was just like, I don't know how I'm going to go forward. And then luckily there's Sue. And Sue's all, that's cool, man. Don't worry about it. Now get a job. She's like, just keep going. And I was like, oh, are you sure? Because I think I just failed. She's like, no, you didn't fail. I was like, really?

0:43:33
Because I thought I failed. She's all, nope, you didn't fail. I'm like, you just didn't pass. You just didn't pass. And I was like, you've got to listen. fail. I'm like you just didn't pass. You just didn't pass. You're gonna listen to I believe I believed her because like I could have given up and she was like no you didn't fail. I was like you sure because I flunked out of the school that Robert told me to go to. She's like nope you didn't fail. I was like and you were doing yoga why you didn't feel yeah and I was doing stupid yoga and that and okay, it's so hilarious. But eventually, you know, and then I was in New York and I was working, you know, at like Pizza Hut and shit like that. I was making pizzas. I got fired from Pizza Hut because I put too much pepperoni. So retarded, but that's what happened.

0:44:25
And I was like, man, I better get this computer job together. And I was like, man, I better get this computer job together. But I kept learning, I kept learning tech. And then everything that Sue taught me actually is what I eventually got my first tech job, Bankers Trust, right across the street from the World Trade Center. And I was like, I got a job there doing the technology that Sue herself personally taught me, because everything I learned in the Computer Learning Center, I flunked at, but somehow Sue connected with me and said, it's not that hard, here's what it is and that's all. job, my first job was $15 an hour. I was doing foreign exchange something. And then, then I was like, Oh, I can actually do this thing that Sue taught me on the job. And then about six months, no, less than that, like four months later, then I got a job at Kraft General I did my first big job, it was like 50 bucks an hour and that's where I got Alexis. And then everything just kept going up from there.

0:45:51
Because then I was like, oh now I can do all this stuff. Did your yoga program that much as well? Well, the yogas that we were doing were kind of silly beginning idea yogas. kind of silly beginning idea yogas like what we do like in Iceland and Paris baby so what was the first really now you're starting to establish in your career yeah so my career started to get strong and then and you've been around for four five years now let's see I was like yeah four years yeah okay and then And then, then Ron was like, now we're going to do for real yoga. What? And he's like software, he's like, he's like software business can be, you know, building a Milorapa tower. The first yoga project was called Information Harvester.

0:47:12
AI expert PhD ST1. AI PhD ST1. Is this Ninja or is this someone else? No, it's not Ninja. True, Ninja was nothing like any of that. He was ST1, all the rest not. But this one guy who was a PhD in AI, I mean in artificial intelligence from Harvard, I mean, in artificial intelligence from Harvard, who's a smart guy, you know, and he was, you know, it's cool. He created an artificial intelligence, a brand new AI. It's not, you know, it's his own technique, but he figured out here's an artificial intelligence, and it's predict, it's a predictive system. So you can do all these cool things that predict whatever you need to So you can do all these cool things that predict whatever you need to predict for any line of business.

0:48:09
Yeah, not bad. And then what we did was, the engine was like, it can do anything. So he said, you guys will join into a group of four and you will do a vertical with that predictive engine. and you will do a vertical with that predicted engine and so my group of four was Sananda, some of you guys know, my enlightened best buddy, and then Mandala, and actually my enlightened best buddy and then um uh um Sebastian oh yeah that's someone he's a he's cool and then this other guy Garrett who ended up being extremely successful um maybe like in terms of business um anyway so yeah we we got together and and the thing the thing we got together and the thing that Rama said was like, just he's like, you gotta go to somebody that you don't really know.

0:49:22
Like don't be cliquish, you have to form, don't go into karma, you have to go into something new. Okay, so I'm all like, hey you look like a nice guy with this feather. And so I got together with these people I didn't really know that well And so I got together with these people I didn't really know that well. And then we had super amazing, fantastical adventures doing yoga. Having great, great, great, wonderful, amazing, fantastic times. Were we doing sales or development at this point? It was all development. It was all development.

0:50:02
And we were doing like pre-sales because we didn't have products that were trying to figure out what people wanted. That was pretty bad too. Yeah, I'm all like, hey, how would you feel about a computer for your thing? And they're all like, no, I don't like you. I'm like, oh. I'm like, I don't know where you go from that. I was just so bad at sales.

0:50:26
And when we use, that'll be shown from a beginner student And when did you transition from a beginner student to an intermediate student? Shortly after that. So once we started doing yoga, was that a successful yoga or was that like a crash and burn great experience set you up for future success yoga? Yeah, yeah. We, everyone failed. No one made anything happen with the business, but the information harvester was sold to But the, the information harvester was sold to the NSA, and they ended up killing a bunch of Muslims.

0:51:02
I'm just kidding. Maybe. Can we predict how to kill people we don't like. really good technology, but we just, everybody, everybody failed at their vertical and somehow the artificial intelligence ended up going to the NSA and what did they do with it? Who knows? So what was your next yoga from there?

0:51:29
Then it was sales. So what was yoga process for this? Yeah, so after that, you know, And after that, you know, crash and burn failure in our yoga, and then we became intermediate students. And then, once we became intermediate students, it was immediately, here is sales. server connection and we had four companies but then we did about a year with them and then one and then one of them survived and that's where everybody, Raman was like, everybody in the sun at the sales. Whoa. Because this is a viable company. So that's one of those like big commission people would like fly all over the country to do sales. Oh yeah. Like governments and things like people would like fly all over the country to do sales like governments and things like that.

0:52:28
Yeah we were it's like you know we're almost like I got 600 students and we're going to sell all over this country and um that was that was a big deal and it was a big deal because up until then he was like everybody should be becoming a computer programmer and which we did everybody's a computer computer We were becoming a computer programmer, and which we did, everybody's a computer, computer programmer, everybody was making you know $50 an hour somebody $5 an hour, back in 1995 or whatever. And it's like yeah I'm making enough money you're doing pretty well. And now, do sales and computer programmers usually don't like doing sales. I like doing. And he's like, this is going to flip the script. And everyone's like, I don't like doing it. And so like, it was, Mama really yelled at people a lot during that time because they were being timid and not open and not trying.

0:53:33
And I was all like, I was like, you tell me to jump, I'll say where or how high. tell me to jump, I'll say where or how high. So I'm like, Mike, you tell me to do it. I did it. And so I ended up being like one, like I was the first top salesperson and I was one of the top 10 salespeople. And I was just like, you know, you tell me to learn something and I You know, you tell me to learn something and I want enlightenment, I'm going to learn what you tell me to do. You tell me to get a black belt, I'm going to get a black belt. You tell me to learn computer programming, that one was hard.

0:54:15
But then, then when, like, I kind of thought of myself as a tech person, but I became super strong in my tech career. and then he goes now all you motherfuckers have to do sales and I was like oh okay I'm like man this is like backwards for me because if you told me sales first I'd be like I could probably do that but if you told me tech first But then I did my tech. It's like if you tell me, learn tech, I'll be like, hmm, that's tough. Then you tell me, do sales, I'll be like, hmm, okay, I can probably do a little, maybe more into that. And now you tell me, beat the shit out of somebody, I'm all, done. Is that my yoga? Cool.

0:55:12
So now, so this is actually probably a good point because and now at this point you're so you're a successful yogi I'm like one of the top ones. You have a successful career. You're also doing security. So like what's your like individual relationship with Rama? Yeah, so I was a very successful student You know in the beginning I was an idiot But I was also one of the first computer consultants so I was also one of the first computer consultants. So, everybody was a better computer programmer than me. I flunked out of school when lots of people didn't. But somehow I got in the first couple of years. I got into making more money than people. So people got some of their earlier basic jobs, and I went into higher end job. of their earlier basic jobs and I went into a higher end job for something, I don't know how it happened. So they were like, whoa. So I remember Ram was like, early on he was like, he's like, you are one of the top 10 income makers of these SD2s. Because he saw me driving my Lexus. He's like, hey, what's going on? And I thought, I don't know, I just what's going on?" and I thought, I don't know, I just started making money.

0:56:27
And he's like, oh, that's cool. He's like, that's good. So he kind of liked me. He's like, oh, and I was a security guy. He's like, you're my security, whatever your name is. My name, my name for a long time with Rama was Hey You. for a long time the drama was Hey You. Hey You. For a year or so. Yeah, for a long time. He's like, Hey you, what's up Lexus? Hey you, that's a good suit. And stuff like that.

0:57:01
And okay, and then I was the first top salesman in the whole Sangha yoga. And he was still like, Hey you. He still didn't know my name. At that time, how many students did drama have? you know how many students did drama have like 600 I mean any any said everyone and he's like all you s he won badass motherfuckers and some of them were millionaires and shit he's like this is yoga and like zero of them succeeded in sales and he was yelling at us he's like all it's like if you don't if you don't do this you're like you're like a dead yogi you're not doing anything as a yogi. A yogi always needs to open, grow, perform. Like if you just go well you know I'm cool now because I got like a million dollars and then your teacher says now sell fucking tea or coffee or whatever go do whatever the whatever go do whatever the fuck is yoga and then you go then what are you doing then he's like he's like you're dead you lost beginner's mind you're not a yoga anyway you gave up i didn't give up and i never give up did you succeed so no it died horribly um but then it went into a reincarnation just like um horribly but then it went into a reincarnation just like like my web TV went into a reincarnation and then it became a buddy and was successful but our original project with 600 people doing sales totally failed eventually I mean it made money but it ended up failing but then it became a smaller of failing but then it became a smaller group focused they redid it and you know and then they they ended up making a massively successful company after the pivot yeah after you know it's like you have to drop everything do something completely different but it was the same product it was just done better with a smaller team and they weren't even focused on sales they were just focused on sales, they were just focused on product.

0:59:14
Yeah, so yeah, it was good. So, I guess like coming into the intermediate, like out of the intermediate, what were like your top, because you mentioned anger was like a big thing, learning tech was a big thing, like relationships, what were your like things that you were like, oh my God. Yeah, so I was pissed off ever since I was a little kid. I was pissed off ever since I was a little kid. You know, I grew up in the hood. I was angry. Everything around me was anger, fighting, trouble. So I was generally a really pissed off person. So I was still pissed off when I got into school. And you know, I found really good people, wonderful friends in my song that they get angry at.

1:00:00
And I didn't hold that out. I think it was anger. So, you know, like, my biggest trouble was, like, going from zero to being successful in a career because I was not good at math and technology and all that stuff. So getting into that was huge. So getting into that was huge. And then after I got through that somehow, because I totally focused on it, and I went past everything that I ever thought I could be, then I went into, now that I'm a computer programmer, let's bring up some more karma, I'm pissed off, I'm angry. I got angry at people who are very close to me. who are my best friends? No, not best friends, but my leaders and people that I was close to, but definitely my leaders. Yeah, that's the thing. And they deserve it. Did you know better? No, I didn't know better. I was totally, I was totally mixed up and confused and just No, I didn't know better. I was totally mixed up and confused. I was just pissed off because I was an idiot.

1:01:21
And then, what happened? a really strong computer person was I just said you know if this enlightened person this person who glows turns into light and disappears and walks on air and shit if he tells me do a computer I better figure that shit out so I threw myself into it and I was not good in the beginning I flunked out or lots of people didn't way better but I ended up doing extremely well than way better but I ended up doing extremely well, extremely strong. Okay and then when I started getting a little comfortable then I was all like hmm done that now I'm gonna get angry because that's my job. Yeah I got angry and so I was like I'm super angry, mad at people because of whatever reason because that's what ego does and ego is the stupidest whatever reason, because that's what ego does.

1:02:27
And ego is the stupidest person I've ever met, and I used to know my own. So I would get angry at my leaders. I wouldn't support them, I'd be angry, because they're, I don't know, because I'm mad, because I'm an idiot. And then I'd get angry at all sorts of things. I would be rude and be angry, negative, all this stuff. things. I would brood and be angry, negative, all this stuff. And then, here's how I learned the lesson of anger. Because it was my main karma. Even from a kid, and in the hood, everything, If you're angry, it doesn't fix the problem with the person you're angry at.

1:03:25
It only hurts you. And I know that might sound like common sense, which it is, but like, I, you know, and maybe And maybe I knew that as an idea, but I finally was like, oh my God, at some point I was like, I was angry. I was just like, I was angry for like months. And like super angry, as angry as possible. And I was just like, this guy's so lucky. Like my leader, I'm like, you're so lucky. As I see what, like you're so lucky I don't just fucking knock you down.

1:04:00
I'm like you're so lucky I don't just fucking knock you down. Because I'm like that's what I would do in the hood. But I'm like, but if I do that I know that's wrong and I'll get mad. How did you come out of this, Ronnie? I just went, I got so angry, I experienced so much suffering from my anger. reading the Dharmapada's chapter, Buddha's Words on Anger. Read it over and over. I kept going through Rama's teachings on mindfulness, I meditated, I just, you know, like I was trying. And that's what you gotta do.

1:04:45
I mean, if you're not good, you gotta try. I was not good, so I tried. So I was just all, look over here. was not good so I tried. So I was just all let go of anger, let go of pride when you're bound by nothing and you're building on sorrow. You know it gave me a little bit of peace but I just read it over and over and over and over so it helped a little bit. And then And then I thought about everything Rama said. And I was like, over and over and meditate, meditate, meditate. And I still was like, you mother fucker.

1:05:21
But eventually, because you know, you know, the inclination of my mind was that I wanted to get out of suffering. I was just stuck in it because it was my karma. And it was a bad karma. You know, we get bad karmas You know, we get bad karmas because we do stupid, shitty things. And it sucks. I'm sorry that we do that, but I did it. Probably you guys do it.

1:05:54
But when you care so much to get the fuck out of it, to follow the Dharma, just to read to follow the Dharma, just to read the I Ching, to read the Buddha's words, to hear, to re-listen to your enlightened teacher. If you care, and that's all you want, you'll get out of it. I did. I had so much trouble, suffering, and difficulty with this person. He's totally fine.

1:06:28
I like him now. and difficulty with this person he's totally fine i like him now i was just i was so i had trouble i it was me he was an asshole he fucked up and that he caused me is all his fault just kidding but he was an asshole but i was an asshole too so when you know when you when you And whenever you blame everybody else, you need to say, don't, stop. I could say he was a jerk, but I'm the bigger jerk if I suffer. I'm the one, you know, someone could just do something. And yeah, maybe it's a slight, maybe it's bad, maybe it's negative.

1:07:13
That always happens. bad, maybe it's negative, that always happens. But the biggest jerk is the person who reacts to it and gets angry and points blame. I finally figured that out. I was like, I gotta stop. I can't do this anymore. So I finally said, if I'm angry, I only hurt myself. I don't solve the solution. There's no solution with me I don't solve the solution. There's no solution with me being angry with this person. So finally I said, it's over. I'm never gonna be angry again. I've never been angry since. I overcame anger. I finally got it at a spiritual level. That's intermediate practice. That was an intermediate student. That wasn't even, you know, I know. It was the biggest deal. That was the one that I was an intermediate student.

1:08:00
know it was it was the biggest deal that was the one that's an interview to have two more intermediate study questions take whichever you want to most magical experience with Rama and favorite Rama talk most magical okay I'm gonna tell you I mean I had so many magical experiences with Rama but I'm just gonna experiences with drama but I'm just gonna tell you one that I is very magical I loved it so much there's so many I mean because my teacher was really just super magical okay one time we're on the beach in San Diego with him because he was ago with surfing the Himalayas. And it was like maybe four of us who were his security team and he had to go to a bookstore.

1:09:02
So we're hanging out with him. We're his security guys. He's a bookstore and he's doing book signings because he's promoting his book. It was a best New York times bestseller. And so they're like, you kind of got to do a book tour. bestseller and so they're like you kind of got a book tour so first place on the tour San Diego so we're there and the first day that we're there he's like meet me at the beach and wear shorts we're gonna play around and we get there and then he goes hey let's do some martial arts because it's like you know we're martial artists and he's like and he's a martial artist he's like oh let's we're martial artists and he's like and he's a martial artist he's like oh let's do some martial arts okay and he's so funny because he's like all awkward tall strange i was just like you're weird he's all like oh yeah he was all funny and then he's all like let's play around and i'm like i do i move so good i'm like strong i'm like oh i'm like i have all this technique I'm like, I have all this technique. And he's like, I mean, he has a black belt in Judo.

1:10:08
And he's also, you know, some weird ass Wu Wei master and shit. But he moves so funny. So he's all like, Oh, oh my god. And then he's all like, Come on, try and get me trying to get me. And we're all just messing with them. And, and he this one, he's been really them and and he this one he's being really easy on us I talked about martial arts with him a lot where he can just knock you down and just when you fall on the floor so he's a great he's a great martial arts master okay but this time we're just goofing around he's just like going like this with this left hand and I'm like oh this is super weird I don't know what's going on and I'm like And I'm like, oh, this is super weird. I don't know what's going on.

1:10:52
And I'm like, oh, and you know, I'm like, I don't want to hit him because I don't want to offend him. I don't know what's going on. And we're goofing around. Anyway, so the four of us are just going in and then we start falling into the ocean because we're chasing him down into the ocean because we're at the ocean. And then we're going at him and he's like, come on.

1:11:12
And then we're going at him and he's like, come on, yeah, let's play. Okay, and then here's what starts happening. We're fighting him into the ocean. He's playing with us, mostly with his left hand. And it's weird. Anyway, we keep going. And then here's what we're doing. We're going deeper into the ocean, and then we're in the waves. and we're in the waves and then he starts like walking up on the waves. As the wave comes he stands up on it. So we're like all, we're all, we're like what? So it's like it became like at first I was like what's going on and then it became very clear and I started just watching and he's like you know ST1s would always I started just watching and he's like, you know, ST1s would always say, we saw Rama walk on water.

1:12:08
And I never saw him walk on water, but I saw him stand up on waves as they're crashing. It was crazy. And we're doing martial arts. He was just messing with us. But, you know, like I was talking to Ketu today about one of the things that he did with art, had to today about one of the things that he did with the young group, the STU's. He's like, there was eight of us and he said, all right, you guys are, you know, 10, no, 20 feet away. He said, I want you to run to me. I want you to touch, try to get me, touch me. And if you can get me, I'll give you a special prize. He's like, really try, you guys are all black belts. And I'm He's like, really try, you guys are all black belts.

1:12:50
And I'm like, I'm the fastest, I'm the best. And I think everybody thought that too. I think Jimmy Fam, Aguilera, Gary Domingo, those are some badass motherfuckers, but I'm the best. It's my opinion, but that's what martial artists is always the kind that are, these guys are badass. Aguilera's a badass motherfucker. these guys are badass. I think Khal's a badass motherfucker. I'll kick his ass. You probably think the same.

1:13:21
You think I beat him? I think so. He's strong, but you are way more tricky. Very tricky. I know, it's amazing. Anyway. you know anyway. But that's the way we think right? Are you a black girl? Yeah. Okay cool. Yeah and that's what we do with y'all. We respect each other as great warriors but well if it comes down to it. Anyway so these are some badass motherfuckers and I'm like I'm faster, I'm stronger, I'm going to motherfuckers. And he says, badass motherfuckers. And I'm like, I'm faster, I'm stronger, I'm going to get there.

1:14:06
I'm going to get there. And I was like, and the Rama's like, he's like, really try and if you can touch me, I'll give you a special, something super special. And I'm like, I'm going to do it. And he goes, okay, ready? On the count of three, go. And I'm like, and I'm sure I was the first one.

1:14:24
first one and then he goes, he stomps on the ground and goes like this and goes, and then the next thing I know, I don't know how I got on the ground but I look over at like, Ugly Colo, Jimmy Sam on the other side, before. Well, what happened? Anyway, so yeah, he was cool. There was another one I was talking about today. Just, I mean, like I did lots of martial arts with him. He was just a martial arts master. But another cool one with, with Shakti. You guys know Shakti?

1:15:06
It was like backstage, right? Like before there wasn't even like a demonstration. Oh yeah. No, he never, never did demonstrations with the SD2s. He did it with some SD1s. But never did demonstrations with the ST2s. He did it with some ST1s, but yeah this was just black belts and him showing us stuff. But there was this really cool time where he took Shakti, who's a really good martial artist, I guess some of you know her, and then you know he said, And, you know, he said, come over here. And he put his finger on her third eye. I think it's either his finger or his hand, I think it's just the finger. And then he said I'm going to show you this thing called sticking energy sticking to. And then he, he, he went like this, and then he went like this.

1:16:01
And Becca. Her feet stayed on the ground. And Becca, her feet stayed on the ground. She didn't fall. She followed his finger down. And then her feet were still on the ground. Her feet were like, her soles of her feet were solid on the ground. They didn't tilt or anything. And then, so he went like this, and then he brought her back up. And it looked like he was...

1:16:26
It didn't look like he was bending... He wasn't holding her or anything. It was just... And I was like, That's cool. It was so cool. It was so interesting. I was like, wow. Anyway, so he did lots of martial arts. Yeah.

1:16:46
I'm not even going to tell you some other stories about the martial arts, because it might scare you. You're like, what? so funny there were martial arts because it might scare you you're like what we'll do that on the uh the bonus episode okay oh yeah that's gonna be the bonus episode and we love you wait did he teach these techniques like this or did he just demonstrate it so um he never taught us no he never taught us this he just demonstrated it but it but Yana sent it. Yeah, Yana, he taught us. So it's that actually, you know, he taught you by showing you, but he didn't teach you. But if you pay attention, you do. And that's why we have Yeah, I was like what I learned this whole life from Rama Was with Wu Wei Do and everything in Wu Wei Do is what I would call Rama Do Rama way Yeah, yeah, right I mean like you were someone should show me you never asked him I didn't know there was sticky energy.

1:18:03
I know because I'm just telling you one story now. But if you asked Yana Hibiya, here's 5 things about sticky energy, he would show you. I mean, the first thing, do you remember when Yana Sensei came over to Bollywood the first time? And they had a party there. That was the first time I met with him. I remember that. It was so nice. We had a yurt. Yes, we had a yurt. And then everyone left because everyone was super drunk or super tired. Yes, I had to hear it. And then everyone left because everyone was super drunk or super tired. And the last two people were him and me. And I was like, hey, so what's up? And then he was like, yeah, I like martial arts. Oh, me too. Oh, really? And then he just started to end for an hour or two. We were just doing martial arts there and he was just showing me crazy shit.

1:18:45
I was like, oh, that's so epic and so cool. Yeah, you should show more. yeah you should show more like yeah okay let's talk at our time too and then started to teach him. That's good. But there was no sticky energy there. There was busy because he didn't want to be busy. We'll get back to the sticky. So favorite Rama talk? Oh. While we're here on the record. Favorite Rama talk absolutely 100% for sure is there's so many amazing ones but it was the many amazing ones but it was the advanced teaching. Which some of you know, but it was a time where I was like, I got some introduction and I got a lot of corrections. Like he spent six years just yelling at us, yelling at us.

1:19:36
yelling at us. He's like, hey, welcome to Satsang with Sambara. And he just, I mean, sorry, with Rama. And he would just go, damn, damn, damn. And he would just yell at us. And if you're an idiot, you say, I disagree. I'm in a bad mood. And then you don't get anything out of it. But if you, if you're open, you go, you know, I remember there's You know, I remember, he did it for like three or four months and I was like, oh, he's talking about everybody else because that's not me. And then I was all, holy shit, he's talking about me. And I was like, whoa. So if you have a bad attitude, you know, if you have a bad attitude, you have a bad attitude and you're never going to get out of a bad attitude.

1:20:24
If you have a bad attitude, you have a bad attitude and you're never going to get out of a bad attitude. But if you listen, you know, it's always the case, if you listen and you care, you feel, Whoa, everything I hear, everything I see is giving me a correction. It doesn't have to be a teacher, except for it was him kicking our ass because he was very appropriately kicking our ass. appropriately kicking your ass. But so beginning loved it. Whoa so many years in the intermediate study it was just pain, difficulty, hardship and him kicking our ass. He'd take your head, put a face in your shit and tell you how to get out of it. out of it. So I guess by him letting go and letting you out of it. Anyway, he just he really gave us a hard time. And then when it got to the advanced teachings of the night. How long were you a student at this point? Seven years? Maybe six years?

1:21:36
um see it was i was 19 and then this was 28 so nine years yeah okay so you were a long longer than most institutes like waylo yeah yeah yeah and um i was like the most testes were like six years from beginning to yeah he was uh one of the first institutes yeah that's the thing i was there a couple years before one of the first institutes yeah that's the thing i was there a couple years before most of them and then when he when he taught the advanced teaching some of you guys don't know i was like mind opened and did you know that was coming or was it a surprise oh no yeah oh my gosh so Oh my gosh, so there was a teaching in the Bahamas, Paradise Island, Bahamas, where he, he, it was, it was the fullest kicking the asses of his students I had ever seen. And Ananda was there, and Rama destroyed Ananda.

1:22:48
Rama destroyed Ananda. He's like, and he's not as enlightened as you want. Yeah. And he said, he said, I never ever yelled at you. Yeah. He was like, SC2 Dharma talked about this teaching too. Yeah. He was here. Yeah. It's just like, he was like, Hey, you know, I never yelled at you.

1:23:13
He always really respected him. I never yelled at you. He always really respected him and then in the and he just beat the shit out of him in front of everybody. Everyone's all like whoa you're yelling at that guy who's like such a high powerful amazing fantastic person and then he yelled at all of us and I was just all like wow it was so amazing it was it was great and it was it was intense everyone was all like oh my Everyone was like, oh my god! And then he said, after that he said, alright, he's like, now it's, you guys did enough. He goes, now I'm going to give you guys this thing called the advanced teachings. I was like, did he say why? Yeah, he did. I think I told you guys though, in the advanced teachings. Oh, okay. you guys though in the advanced teachings. Oh okay. Which I can't tell you. Cliffhanger.

1:24:08
But there's a reason why. We'll get that on the special bonus episode. Yeah. So now you have the advanced teachings and this is uh there's what four months from there from there until Rama dies. Yeah something like that. Yeah, something like that. Yeah. And then the whole time, you know, Rama's talking about he's giving all these advanced teachings. He's like, oh, he was just super subtle about it. He's like, oh, hey, so what's going on? And people are still struggling. And he's just like, no, I gave you advanced teaching. Don't think that old way. And I was, I didn't advanced teaching don't think that old way and I was I didn't think it because when he gave me the advanced teachings I sucked at meditation the whole time I enjoyed meditating with him I can see magic and power and feel good with him my own meditation the whole time I said to become was like struggling with struggling with thoughts. I had so much negativity and all this bad stuff. I was so upset, confused.

1:25:20
I was just going through all sorts of shit all the time. And then after the advanced teachings, I told my advanced students, I said, I was like, I'm going to do this. If you tell me that this is it, I'm going to do it. And I remember the second day I was do it and like I remember the second day I was able to stop thought for an hour I was able to go to the fourth jhana for the first time ever and I was like no fucking way I was like holy shit this does work and then kept going I could stop thought and I can go into and then I start going to smile a little bit later when I start going to smarty and I was like but like really early in Rama bit later when I started going to Samadhi. But like really early in Rama dies. Yeah I started going to Samadhi after he died. Yeah because the story you told earlier about when you're in so like Rama dies you're like I gotta go to Europe and find another I gotta go to Asia and find another advanced teacher. I still didn't believe in myself even though I was able to meditate very deeply and stop thought I was like, but I'm not Rama, I'm an idiot. I'm not Rama.

1:26:30
Right. And for a lot of the so you were around a little bit longer for a lot of the SEC to they were like around like six years like not much longer than us, some of them, six years yeah they're like oh yeah now you're advanced students and like, here you go be enlightened. Yeah. How many people go to how many people go to the advance. 400. And how many students did he have total at that time? 400. So did everyone get the evidence teaching? Everyone who was, so, I mean he had at some point 2,500 students. He dwindled it down. At the end there was about 400. But then he, he invited maybe. He invited maybe, he invited about probably 25 students back who I hadn't seen for years or never saw, but I was security, so I'm like, who is this person?

1:27:26
I know, I know everybody's face. So, I'm like, who is this person? And I'm like, do you have a ticket to be here? Who are you? Okay, I won't knock you out. You can come in. okay i won't knock you out you can come in so every student of people actually this then is teaching together every student who made it to the end yeah yeah so then you get the advanced teachings ramadize you're in asia looking for like more enlightenment teaching yeah you told a story from earlier tonight which is that you're at the pavana sambhava monastery that's the george a chang monastery yeah that's when you go into savakopal the Padmasambhava monastery, that's the Dorje Chang monastery.

1:28:04
Yeah. That's when you go into Savakopal Samadhi the first time. What's the track from there to back to the United States now? Oh my gosh, yeah, okay, so even though I knew day two after the advanced teachings that it was really, really real, I could actually meditate. But then once Rama died, I was like, my enlightened teacher is dead and I didn't have Samadhi and I could have still meditation. But I was like, it's not enough. I need to go and find, I gotta go to Asia and find another guru, an enlightened teacher. enlightened teacher. I went around all over Asia and guess what? Yeah, zero. And I would go to everywhere and say, just honestly, I'm like, I'm like in China, I'm in, I'm in Indonesia, I'm in Thailand or wherever. And I'm like, in Nepal, I'm yeah, Nepal. I went all around Nepal. And I'm like, you go to Buddhists and say, who's enlightened? And guess what they and say who's enlightened and guess what they all say no one buddha they're uh yeah buddha buddha and i'm like but is that what buddha taught that he was enlightened and then fuck all after that no because i remember it so i was uh so i was like wait a minute you know like i don't know i guess i'm very liberal having that enlightened teacher but they were like no I don't know, I guess I'm very liberal, having an enlightened teacher.

1:29:40
But they were like, no, no one's enlightened. And I'm like, well, is there anyone who can go into Samadhi? Because that's the step that I'm trying to get to. I can stop thought now, but I'm not yet going into Samadhi. And then, yeah, I found a few people who can go into Samadhi. And then I would go to them, and they're in a cave, or there's some great, you know, cave or there are some great you know Rinpoche or something and I saw them go into Samadhi for like 10 seconds and when they went to Samadhi for 10 seconds I'd be like well like so you know it's in there and this Rinpoche is just doing this thing for four hours is puja and I'm like oh Michael and then all of a sudden he goes into Samadhi and I'm like I'm like, that's the thing.

1:30:27
This reminds me of my teacher. And then nine seconds later, it's gone. And I'm like, and he's back to board. It just made me say, wait a second. My teacher, like what I do, you can sit with me and I go like this. higher states of mind into Samadhi and I'll sit there forever. As long as we're together, it could be hours. Or longer. Or longer. Yeah. And I remember sitting with Rama where he's just in Samadhi and the higher Samadhi is like way higher than those guys and I go, I'm like, wow. So those guys are cool. They have a little bit of Samadhi Oh wow so those guys are cool they have a little bit of samadhi and that's a good thing nice nice little personal practice not enlightened but good thing and I'm like but I was just with a master who was like could sit in samadhi forever and I was like I should trust what he said and taught trust what he said and taught. So when I went through Asia for eight months and all looking around for Latin people, I never found any. And then the few best of the best that I could find were just, you know, just 10 second, 10 second Samadhis. It's a good 10 seconds.

1:32:00
It's a good 10 seconds. It's a good 10 seconds. And if you guys can do that, then we'll cheerio for you. But I'll sit in Samadhi every day for 6 hours just because it's my natural, normal thing. But I can do more. And it's a real thing. It's a real deal. It's a real thing. It's a real deal. So you have that first Salva Culpa Samadhi on the Stupa.

1:32:31
And that was on the Stupa in the Himalayas at that place I was talking about today. And then how long from there until you're back in San Francisco? That changed my life so big. That was the first enlightenment experience. And it's almost like a moksha. But it wasn't, it was big. And then from there I went to Japan and I was with my good old martial arts friend and a couple other friends. And I was like, that was a big deal there.

1:33:05
It was super funny and weird. And then I came back to America and I was like, and I told that friend and everybody who I knew, that friend and and everybody who I knew I said hey let's go to dinner we went to dinner at what was it yeah it was no it's like one of these really high-end hotels on the hill Ritz Carlton shoulder Ritz Carlton and I got them together I And I got them together and I said, hey, I'm taking you guys out and I want to tell you. And I told them, I'm going to start a spiritual school. This is the same dinner with Kundalini?

1:33:48
No, this is way earlier. Oh my God, I love it. This was right when I got back from Asia. So you're like a year into the advanced teaching now? Yeah. Not quite? Yeah, I think I was a year in. But I had my first self-awareness. in but I had my first Salvatore Pasumadi and I was like baby this is for real. They start spiritual school. I got a few people who were students of Brahma's and then a couple friends and my brother. I said I'm going to start a spiritual school let's do this and they're all my brother i said i'm gonna start a spiritual school let's do this and they're all they're all like no fucking way and where are they classic yeah i'm gonna go well i'm gonna do it i just wanted to offer it to you guys totally get it and then you got your job at g and van because that was like a cash flow equals energy club because you had two offers right and like one was really close and then one was really Because that was like a Cashflow equals Energy club, because you had two offers, right?

1:34:51
And like one was really close and then one was really far away, but for more money. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, then, yeah. So then I was like in San Francisco, told everybody I wanted to do spiritual school, everybody who I knew in there, all like, oh, girl, it's just all, no way. It's impossible. They all gave up on Rama and everything, but I was all, but no, look, I'm alive. I went into Samadhi. I was like, but no, look, I'm alive.

1:35:15
I went into Samadhi, it's a real deal. So they're all like, we like you, and we're never gonna do this. They were cool. Anyway, my brother kind of is better. He just didn't have the turnout. But then I was like, okay, well, got it. Then I was like, okay, well, gotta work, gotta get back into work. And I had two contract offers. One at Charles Schwab downtown, 15 minutes away from where I lived, $85 an hour and that's all.

1:36:00
Then another one way the hell in the East Bay in San Ramon like super far away. I didn't have my car so I was like I'm gonna take a bus, BART and another bus. It would take me like two hours and 15 minutes to get to work and back. But it was 120 an hour. So I'm like cash flow equals energy flow going there. going there and it was like a pain in the ass but I went anyway and then that's where I met Tara. Tara told that story recently to a lot of people at Bodewoods about you coming in on a three-month contract and you were she was your ride to work. Well at first I was on my own to get there and then to get there. And then she's like, where do you live? And I'm like, San Francisco. And she's like, oh, where? And I'm like, we live like five blocks away. And then she's like, oh, hey, if you want, we can commute together. And I'm like, you want to be best friends?

1:37:08
And she said for a while, it was just like silent the whole way. And then it was like, Yeah, and then it was like eventually you mentioned a little bit of spiritual like not even a lot He's like, oh, do you meditate a little bit? So super cool. So when I met Tara, I mean like I'm in the right first better That was I was sad That because um, I thought she was I thought she was so I recognized her I thought she was a mess. She was a mess. Yeah. That's what she said.

1:37:49
She was a mess. But I was just like. She owned up to that. I was like you know the standard of our school the tone now that you have to have to be able to succeed here is so high and I and you know like like with Rama Rama would just kick people And you know, like with Rama, Rama would just kick people out if they didn't have a high tone out. And I saw her and I recognized her. I was like, oh my god, you're a mess. You're so fucked up, it's impossible. I was like, so I was like, pffft. like you guys gotta like understand like my New York friends my Ferrari drivers they look at me and they see that I drive a bus and they're just so you fucking suck that's how they think about me and Agni Kala and Kundalini and Shiva they just are like you guys suck so bad but really the door but they but I told so that they have like this high standard and Rama had a super high this high standard and Rama had a super high standard and you couldn't be you could be there but there are few people to be there you could be there you're like super shiny happy bright just everybody else is fucked up right it's true because I remember so Tartar is a story about how like you basically you know like slowly you guys have meditated she was just adamant like I had like, you basically, you know, like slowly, you guys have meditated, took out your meds, she was just adamant, like teach me this, because she was miserable.

1:39:20
But then your contract ended and there was no plans to like make, you know, meet up after that. And then like a little while after you sent her an email. So my question is like, what prompted you to send that email? Oh, well, I mean, it was like a warming thing. So I recognized her. I mean it was like a warming thing. So I recognized her. I was like, when I was at that contract and she showed up as my QA, I was the tech lead, I was like, holy shit, I recognized her.

1:39:52
I was like, oh. Then I was all immediately excited because I saw her from past lives, I knew her. I was like, oh my God, it is you. And then I was like, oh fuck, I knew her. I was like, oh my god, it is you! And then I was like, oh fuck, what the fuck happened to you? And then I was like, holy shit, and it's like, you are so broken, damaged, broken, your toenails, it's never gonna work out.

1:40:14
So I just gave up on her. The one thing I liked is that she lived in my neighborhood so she can drive me to work. That was huge. That was super helpful. Huge. But then I was like, you know, I would just sit there in the car and I wouldn't say anything That was super helpful. Huge. But then I was like, you know, I would just sit there in the car and I wouldn't say anything to her.

1:40:30
I just saw, like, man, you fucked up. And I was just like, maybe next lifetime or something. I was just like, we drove back and forth, me and Tara. Now you see me and Tara, we love each other. But I was just like, whoa. I was like, I don't even have anything, I can't talk to you. just like whoa I was like I don't even have anything I can't talk to you how are you going to talk to someone about martial arts when they don't have any arms yeah exactly you know just so you know I think I might have been kind of spiritually a bassist yeah you definitely were So I just felt...

1:41:14
And then... You went out frequently for a while I mean, I worked with her and we drove together And she was your lunch buddy too And she kept asking me some questions She's all like Hey, um Are you spiritual? And I'm all...

1:41:36
Yeah, sure Sure. You know, I like, she's asking questions little by little. I was just disparaging because I was spiritually racist. And then I asked Alex. I was just all, I didn't even talk about it because you're just through. You're done. I was like, because I, you know, because her toenail was broken. But then here's the thing. because her toenail was broken.

1:42:02
But then here's the thing, little by little, she asked me questions, I gave her answers, and little by little, because she felt something, she changed, transformed, they came together, and I was like, oh, huh, like, is it possible? Is it possible? Like, is it possible? Is it possible?

1:42:28
I was so like, I didn't believe it was possible, but little by little she got it together and I was all, no way. But that's the story of the Hungarians as well. Because you know, so I had some kick-ass ST3s who were super strong and amazing. And then they're like, hey, come to Hungary. And then they're like, hey, come to Hungry. And I'm like, what? And then when I went to Hungry, actually, it was a big deal. Because the first day that I saw you guys, I was all like, I was like, there's like six people in this room who are, they are, they are the great yogis of the world.

1:43:12
You were there, Sully? Oh yeah, the first, the first time. you already showing oh yeah the first the first time in the library right how do we know how do you ignore it I was just like all I was like I was like no way but then the rest of them I thought fuck those guys they're a waste of time but then guess what happened I was like I hung around I was just kind of of open-minded and then I saw great people I mean who are not great I mean I wouldn't I would never expect them that they transformed so this is why half of you are in the room because I used to have this standard where I wouldn't even accept Tara because you know she wouldn't cut it with with Rama if she Rama she was not ready but I was like well if you wait around and you're open and you just give a teaching then it works and it's like I remember you told the story about the Hungarian Sangha like that because you give them a yoga task for sales with the expectation that like two people are gonna do it but then like a bunch of people remember I was like you all it's so funny I was like Remember, I was like, you all, it's so funny.

1:44:27
I was like, okay, if you guys want to be here, good. Okay, now here's what you do. You sell my software. You guys are like, what the fuck? This American guy shows up and I don't know, he like meditates and some shit, there's something happening. We don't know exactly what, but we like it. And now he says, sell my software. And he goes, okay, by the solstice, software. And he goes, okay, by the solstice, you either like sell to customers, or it's over. And I'll kick you out.

1:44:57
I think there was a quota, there was a quota, we had to set up two demos on the week when Ashan was in town. But it was okay, but it was also you had to sign up, you had to not only set up, but sign also you had to sign up. You had to not only set up, but sign up two system integrators. Yes, that was the second quota. Oh, yeah, I kept going. First one was the carrots. If you can meet the quota, you can go to the second one.

1:45:32
I don't know why. If you don't meet the quota, you're kicked out. Yeah, see, I'm all like, here, it gets better or you're kicked out. I'm like here it gets better or you kicked out and I I'm so happy. Where did you come from? Did you do that? I know because I was there in the library Jing was Jing you were there I remember you were sitting on his seat. I remember randomly you met me in the middle of a park But that was way later. Come on my It was a bunch of practice.

1:46:02
That was like two years later. Yeah, but I remember that. Like she got kicked out. No, I didn't get kicked out. I didn't even go there because a bunch of my friends went there. I got all the shoes and I was meditating. I was sneaking under that table. You were so sneaky. Of course, why would I go to that table? Okay, here's my question.

1:46:22
So, this is now like, you're like a year and a half, two years into advanced practice. And now there's a Hungarian that's like, you're like, So you're like a year and a half, two years into advanced practice, and now there's a Hungarian Sangha that's starting to emerge. There's some San Francisco students, starting with Tara. No, that was much later. The Hungarians came in 2005. Yeah. So that was after enlightenment?

1:46:38
Okay. Oh, yeah, yeah. Oh, yeah. I was there. I was there. Definitely. So there's a couple of students. There's like Tara, Ajna, maybe a couple of random ones. Yeah. Where does enlightenment end with the picture, and can you share that story?

1:46:51
Well, okay. does enlightenment end with a picture and can you share that story? Well okay well um yeah so yeah I had Tara uh as my first student that ran into her at work totally disbelieved her until somehow she stuck around asked enough questions and I was all like no way is it possible? destroyed. It can't happen. And they had I'm like, Oh, well, what is the martial arts? And she started doing stuff. And I'm like, I was like, it could maybe happen. And then all of a sudden we met little Ashna. Ashna was this homeless person. And he showed up at one of teachings and I was just like I liked him right away I was like I was like I was just like dude like I was like I am happy to meet him and I was like wow this guy's so cool cuz Ashna I know you guys might know Ashna is this run-down might know Ajn as this run-down, beat-to-shit weirdo who's all pissed off, but um, but he is.

1:48:10
And I knew him from many Paths Like. But his Paths Like profile. Yeah, actually Ajn was a guru of mine in Paths Like. Bad guru. I remember in Iceland you were saying that he was like a Samadhi guy. He was like, He was like a Samadhi guy. He was like, he's a very advanced being. Anyway, so, but a big goofball sometimes. God bless him. Yeah, but I recognized him right away. Just like I recognized Tara. So, yeah. Anyway, and then, uh, what happened?

1:48:44
So, you're on the meditation center. Wait, wait, wait. And then I created the San Francisco Meditation Center. It was a connection that Ajna had so that we can get the place. And we got this place, we painted it, we did the floors, we made it super beautiful and put up tankas and just- And it's just you, this one, or is this you, Mandala, and Sananda?

1:49:11
Me, Mandala, Ajna, Tara, Mandala Ashna Tara, and maybe a couple of random students that didn't stick around. I don't remember who else it was. And then we created this meditation center. And then we started putting up posters. And then people came to our side of talk to me and Gordo advertising and talk to me at Gordo and that's where you got a lot of students from. I know and that's where you got a lot of students from. It's a good talker. Yeah. Yeah. And so, then, um, so the first round of students was about 50 students. And I was hanging out. I mean I taught every single day. I was there I mean like, that's our, that's our spot and, and then there was this one time where it's 2002 summer solstice.

1:50:19
And I was sitting at home in Tehran. So I got stronger and stronger. I told you it's the first time where I went into Samadhi in the Himalayas. And then I went into Samadhi more and more and more and more and more and more and then I met the first ST2 woman who was enlightened. This Kundalini. Kundalini. This is now the dinner. Yeah and then I, the first day I sat with Kundalini, I meditated with her. She's like, The first day I sat with Kundalini, I meditated with her. She's like, after I meditated with her, she's like, are you enlightened?

1:50:56
And I'm like, no. She's like, you're very strong. And I'm like, my meditation is off the hook. I'm like, I became a meditation master, but that was, you know, so it took a while to get to there. But she's just like, just sitting with me. get to there but she's just like just sitting with me saying like if something goes in smutty it feels like it might. She's like are you a mighty normal? No. Because I still have self. But she's like dude you're strong. I am strong but I still have self. She's like we'll work through it.

1:51:36
works for it. Yeah, she was so cool. And then, yeah, and then there was, there was, I remember 2002, Summer Solstice. I was sitting at my house in Tiburon, overlooking Richardson Bay. Alcatraz Avenue. Alcatraz, 51 Alcatraz Avenue. And I was just like, and then I, and then Alcatraz Avenue and I was just like and then I and then I went I was like hey and what was that moment? It wasn't it wasn't it wasn't just a moksha it was a primary liberation it was uh Nirvana and I did you recognize at the time or you're just like whatever yeah I it seemed good but I was going into like self-occup of somebody a lot so I was like I was like good bad who's couple of somebody a lot so it's like I was like good bad he's yeah what was your last sunscara what you had to solve my last sunscara yeah the last one was here yeah my last my last sunscara I was a kundalini and it was about I don't know maybe three months before my liberation And I had this thing where I was like, I had a fear, a deep fear.

1:52:58
And she was like, what is it? We're sitting there in LA and having dinner. She's like, what is it? I'm like, well, you know, there's that place in Zion, that place where if you place where if you fall off the cliff, probably it's this giant cliff. This angel's landing? Yeah, it's not angel's landing because angel's landing is a different story. Anyway, something like that. But you guys were there, right? Yeah, we took us there.

1:53:26
There's that, and there's this, if you fall off, it's a big deal. And I used to sit at the edge there and meditate and be like, whoa, super intense. super intense and I was like, I mean you're like you're sitting on a cliff over this powerful canyon, place of power, and I was like oh this is really intense and then she was like so you have a fear from that and I was like no it's just a power I feel she's like no fear from that. And I was like, no, it's just a power I feel. She's like, no, you're afraid. And I'm like, yeah, like, I feel like I'm going to fall into the void, die, fall in. And then she's like, okay, go with that. And I was like, okay. And then, uh, sitting there with her in Mandela was sitting next to me too. And I was like sitting there with her over dinner in Los Angeles, And I jumped in and I let go of all of my fear.

1:54:31
That was the last sub-skara. And then after that I'm like, I'm not afraid anymore. The mandala was just all, you know, somebody, you're super golden bright. And I'm like, cool. There's some famous SD story about, SD4 story about that, when someone asks you like the last time you were afraid and you're like, 1997. someone asked you like the last time you're afraid and you're like 1997. Really? Yeah. Maybe it was 99. Who knows?

1:54:59
It was 98. Okay. Close. And now I'm not afraid of nothing. Kill me. Step on me. So what was that transition like? So you had a couple of students at this point and now like there's a primary So what was that transition like? So you had a couple students at this point and now like there's a primary liberation in play. Yeah it was cool. I remember I... And is this point like is Sananda around also? Is it the three of you guys? Sananda's not there yet. Okay. Mandala's there. Um but so it was it was like yeah it was with Kundalini and she got me past my you know Kundalini and she got me past my you know my last samskara and then kept meditating well and she was like you're gonna become enlightened very soon she's like probably in the summer solstice and we were like weeks away I was all like whatever and then it was like the day before the solstice and I was at home and I was at home and I'm sitting there, my home was such a beautiful place, beautiful place to come and then I went south.

1:56:08
Went into Maricopa and I didn't even know what that was. I was like, well that was special. What was the experience? It's kind of hard to explain but it's very similar to what I experience these days. experience these days, even today, oh my god, it's so difficult, where 90% of what I see is just gold light. But I'm really strong now because I can, even though 90% is like just gold light everywhere, I can tell how to walk. But like, you know. It's a miracle.

1:56:49
Yeah. It's a miracle. Yeah. So I became enlightened and I was liberated and I had to drive from Tiburon across the Golden Gate Bridge to go to teach a class. I'm like, I'm going to teach a class. And this is the first time where I was driving and I'm like, oh, everything's just gold. Like everything disappears in gold. peers in gold. And I'm like, somehow, I do everything perfectly and get there and not die. And you and Simanda like basically at the same time. Yeah. Oh, yeah. And then, then the next time we met with Kenda Lee, which was like two weeks later, she's like, no, was like three of you became enlightened i think it was me sonanda and agni kala i thought i'd be called his way later yeah was it okay i guess it was just us two and then we sat next to each other and we're all like we're sitting next to each other and she's we watched the you mandala sonanda dharma magic carpet video oh really yeah so sweet i love it so much Yeah, anyway, so, um, but yeah, sitting there at my little spot in Tiburon after, you know, Kundalini showed me how to go past my last samskara, which was fear.

1:58:24
And then I went into agriculture. And, you know, I was a squirrel. And then I took my students on a trip to, you know, I think Joshua Tree or something like that. Zion! There he is. And it was really, really bright. bright. I was like, hey, this is... and Tara was like, oh yeah, the first time after my liberation, I went to the center and I meditated and I was just like really chill. And then Dharma and Tara were like, this is different. What's going on? And I'm like, I don't know. I don't know. I'm like, who's to say?

1:59:15
Who's to say? Yeah, I mean, I didn't know what it was. I just was like, all right. You know, it happens when you like get advanced and you get up there and you're meditating, going into Samadhi a lot. It's like all of the negative things are crazy. It kind of doesn't matter anymore. Like really when you get kind of what we call enlightenment, it kind of doesn't matter.

1:59:39
But if you get enlightened, what we call enlightenment, that kind of doesn't matter. But if you get enlightened, if you get into the higher stages of enlightenment, yeah it matters. In the beginning you're just a big fuzzy enlightenment head that you're just all, everything's so jolly, I'm going to Samadhi, and then I'm back. And that's a really nice thing, you know, why not, just be happy, jolly jolly jolly. But then when you get to where I'm at, you know, it all matters. I'm at no it all matters and then I need to manage the basic enlightened people to get stronger to like be able to lead you know like this place yeah you know and all that shit and also everything so it's not just you know my first basic enlightenment was like oh I don't even know what's going on so jolly and I can't I don't even know what's going on, I'm so jolly.

2:00:26
And I can't even drive a car. I mean, I could drive a car. Luckily I could drive a car. But now I'm like, oh, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm at that point where I'm like, I have lots of enlightened students and they're really good. And I guide them to be stronger. You know, and yeah, you guys need a period of like, well, maybe it's good for me, like, oh, no, no, no, no.

2:00:52
There's a place to go beyond that. period of playing. No, no, no, no, no. There's a place to go beyond that. Everyone has to be jolly and wonderful and fuzzy-headed for a little while. What was happening? What changed from you from going or being a goofball to be a serious enlightened teacher and lead people to... people to... wasn't it a Shakti story? what? wasn't Shakti the one that was like because you were all like in the second intention? I thought it was a Shakti story. I like Shakti a lot but tell me more. I heard a story where you were just like in the second intention and Shakti was the one who was like no this is what would Rama do? oh bring me back into it. wasn't it Kundalini? I heard that me back into it. Wasn't that Kundalini? I heard that's with Kundalini. I thought it was Shakti. I heard it's Kundalini. It's probably both of them. Yeah, it's probably both of them.

2:01:49
You know like, am I like, how do you remember? No, because I was so in the second attention light, I was like who's that Shakti and Kundalini, I don't remember. who says Shakti and Kindalini? I don't remember. Anyway, yeah, I think both of them did the point. I'm sure both of them at some point said, you know, you're being all out there, all bright, and then they're like, but what would Rama do? I'm like, oh, yeah, it was it was Kindalini first, It was Kundalini first, and Shakti I think so too. I'm like, oh yeah. Rama would say, let's get this stuff together. Yeah, that was a big, that was a big click.

2:02:39
That was Kundalini, the first one. Kundalini was really helpful. So I guess what's your, skipping ahead now, going through like years of sangha, which now we know all this stuff. So skipping ahead now, going through like years of sangha, which now we know all this stuff. So this is like all the preamble that we didn't know. What's like the message to the students of the future, the ST7, the 8th, the 11th, on your message to the future for them?

2:03:12
That's my ultimate message. I mean, like, yeah, my ultimate message to my students of the future, to this lineage, chill out. you could follow the structures of the school and it will be enlightening and I think as we go into the future um I think there will be a lot of people who are going to be okay at doing structure but chill out means letting go of the ego right yeah so they'll there'll be some your heart yeah there'll be people who can do some stuff they can push some computers because People who can do some stuff, they can push some computers because, you know, there's gonna be more millennials or whatever, Gen Z or whatever who can do more. Right. But, and we will have a lot of tunnel. And I think that starting into the future people will be stronger at tunnel than before. before um but i i would say chill out which means chill out okay what's your sting for your sangha i mean we're kind of living it right now but like i don't know the question so we have a really um smart song that and it's it was based on what Sangha and it's it was based on what Rama created. So Buddha said that his Sangha could live for 500 years and now 2,000 years later people are 25,000, 2,500 years later they're like we're still here Buddha what are you talking about but then there's no one's enlightened. You go to a Buddhist monastery Is there anywhere in the world who's enlightened? None of them.

2:05:15
And I'm like, well that Buddha meant enlightened Sangha. So, this Sangha is going to be an enlightened Sangha for 2500 years. Yeah, it's weird. That's you guys. Oh yeah, that's you guys. It's a good thing. It's a very, very powerful thing. But, and I don't know if you guys understand what that means, but I mean, there's a lot of our haunts right now, but it's not only gonna stop after one lifetime or another, you guys are gonna teach people, who teach people, teach people who teach people but not only just teach but teach people enlightenment and yeah it's okay it's like it makes a difference for those people and we're lucky to be in this opportunity and it's it's you know a it's you know a couple thousand years of going strong and then it'll change into something else maybe it'll die or maybe it'll change into something else there might be another Buddha who's born who sees in a different way and changes it all because that happens. Moon Decker cards. Yeah but we're at the beginning I We're at the beginning, I mean, yeah, right at the beginning of really strong, special, but real experience of enlightenment.

2:07:06
There might not be a lot of people, but there will be enlightened people from this school, this school this school for you know like 20,000 years neighbor in his braille is sd4 is teaching sd5s the thing very soon sd5 new page sd6 oh wait it's already happening and so many rehabs in israel like have this like very strong where you have this very strong rama dimension of that, like authentic from the source to the thing. Sorry it's just... It's really nice right? Is that... All right good all right all right which time is it?

2:08:00
All right, all right, all right, which one is it. It is. Nice podcast. Thank you so much. Okay. But I still have to do one on one meeting, of course. Thank you so much. Yes. Beautiful. I think the last question that was a good place I think you asked questions that led to know it's the whole progression but like no one's heard it linearly like this, like you've heard these different parts of it. these different parts of it. And we sort of PC of the mind, but I'm hearing in context, super helpful. I think Kathy's in linear. In the beginning. And then you guys got that part.

2:08:45
Yeah, okay, cool. thank you yes this is so fun it's like very casual it's very relaxed i like it like it's the real story and that's the thing like we ever recorded but it might not ever leave body woods like this this is like a thing for the people tonight to experience and it's a beautiful thing what do you think uh mina like you're from salmonay do you think this was helpful and positive helpful and positive. She's in. I like to go over and I like to speak my German. This is Anzibar rock. Wow. Seriously? Yeah, it's like gold. It's a beautiful pyrite. Built into it. Whoa. That's going into the shrine. I saw all those rocks. Yeah. They're pretty serious. Are you kidding? Oh my gosh. I know, isn't that crazy? I know, isn't that crazy?

2:09:43
So are you ready for office hours? Okay, I gotta move on to office hours. I just want to say that this is so beautiful, what you're wearing. It's almost like those Chinese things. It's a combination, listen, Chai, show your pants. What? It's from Thailand. Dude, Thailand? Can you believe that? Yeah, I like Thais.

2:10:01
But that's a model bag. That's a Vietcong bag. Thailand? Can you believe that? Yeah, I like Thai stuff. But that's an Anodai. That's a Vietnamese... That's Vietnamese? Yeah, Anodai is a Vietnamese thing, and it's a Vietnamese coat. She doesn't think so. I know. She's from China.

2:10:16
I know. I have multiple Anodais, and I have multiple... You call it... Anodais? She's Anodai.

