0:00:00
Hello everyone.

0:00:04
So there's a book that I'd like you to read. It's called The Heart of Awakening, the Ashtavakra Gita. And this is a very good book because it describes what enlightenment is very clearly from the experience of an enlightened person. Just saying, this is how it is. So, this is a book that I'd like Bodhans and Shodhans to read. Because sometimes you go, I get very inspired and think I'm a martial arts, martial artist. And then if you hear a sensei talk about what martial arts is, it's a different thing. It's like if you read Musashi's book, the book of five rings, then you'll understand what a martial artist is. It's different than you just like, wow, I'm inspired. I can do this. Can you do identify it? You know, it's different. Okay, so we're going to begin with meditation. We're going to sit with focus on the navel chakra.

0:01:26
So, the the the So So So so So So you So Bodhans, I want you to read this book, the Ashtabhakra Gita, because I want you to see that this is an opportunity in the study. that the Shodans and the Arhats in this school are very strong. You see that there's a lot of opportunity in this school for being good at meditation, mindfulness, yoga, spiritual advancement, enlightenment. So this is a wonderful opportunity. a little bit more about what enlightenment is. And that you can see that it's something that's very strong in the school. So like, you know, if you go to a dojo, and there's a sensei, and say, wow, that sensei is really good.

0:03:20
But everybody else is like a white belt, or yellow belt, and you know, black belts, you say, this is a black belt school. Now, I said this day one when I started teaching in San Francisco. I was just like, hey, this is a black belt school. That means that everyone's going to be a black belt. And they were like, oh, sounds nice. There's a great opportunity, but it's important to have etiquette. Etiquette is honoring the opportunity. And you know, there's just a lot of different ways that we have etiquette. It's very subtle, but it's very important. We don't have rules, we have etiquette. But etiquette to your teacher and your school is to have respect. You don't have to like your teacher. You don't have to love your teacher. You don't have to like your classmates. Oops. You don't have to love your classmates, but you have to respect your teacher and you have to respect the people in your Sangha. You have to. If you don't respect them, it doesn't work, and there's the door. So Bodhans, there's this thing, where's the door to Zen? It's like someone goes to the Zen master, where's the door to Zen? He's like, there is no door to Zen. Which means that the door to Zen is right here. Or there is no door. Where's the door to get out of this sangha? There is no door.

0:09:19
Just get the...

0:09:20
If you don't like it, leave. Right?

0:09:26
It's true.

0:09:27
If you don't see a benefit, and you just think everything's lame, there's the door.

0:09:35
Everywhere.

0:09:36
Right?

0:09:37
The door to enlightenment is everywhere, and the door to get out of this school is everywhere. Because you don't need to be here if you don't like it. If you don't have respect for me and each other, then this is not the place for you. Read this book. Buy my book.

0:09:57
Sorry, Svadhi Dharma is not here.

0:09:58
Wait, you see? No, okay. Me and Bodhi Dharma, we were in like, um, we were doing some business meeting with these Japanese guys, and this one guy was all, buy my book! Buy my book! Anyway, so, buy my book! Yeah, so, etiquette is important. And I'm gonna tell a story, a true story that I love so much, that I tell a lot. It's a story of etiquette and respect and honor. Okay, so there's a sensei in New York. He's from Japan. He's very traditional. And he's very famous because in Japan, he fought a bull. He was like, I will show my power. And he punched a bull and knocked it out. He fought a bull. So he's like famous, Oyama sensei. He's the real deal. He's like really strong. Okay, and then he goes to New York, he opens this, you know, like he's got the video of him knocking out a bowl. Everyone's like, oh my gosh, you're so good. And this is back like in the 70s. And lots of people are interested in coming to this place. Anyway, so this one guy from Brooklyn comes to his place, and he's skeptical. He's like, I don't know if I like this stuff. He's like, I don't know if this would work. I'm interested, but I don't know. Like so many spiritual people. I'm interested but I don't know." And then he was watching technique and then he would make comments. He's like, well that shit wouldn't work in a real street fight. I won't work in Brooklyn. But it's not going to happen. And then the sensei would say, don't curse in my dojo. Don't say those words. That's so negative. You don't do that. It's disrespectful. And then he would show this, like, you punch, and I do this thing. And he's like, oh man, this is stupid shit. He's like, don't curse in my dojo. This guy kept doing it. And he's like, he's showing with black belts, he's like, this technique and the sense is showing real powerful. And this is a guy who can knock out a bull, right? And this guy's all like, this shit doesn't work for Brooklyn. And then he says, okay, I will show you that it works. You can try to punch me. I will show you this technique. And so the guy tried to punch the course blocks and then he hits him pretty hard because he wants to impact and show that this is powerful technique and then this guy from Brooklyn says fuck you why'd you hit me so hard and then Oyama is like you crossed the line, and I need to teach you something. And he's like, and he hits him in the face. And, I mean, if he could hit a bull, he could hit a human. Anyway, that guy was hurt and bled all over the place, right? And I'm like, that guy will never make that mistake of etiquette again. It's a lesson. It's a martial arts lesson. But it's important to have etiquette and respect. You don't know. You think you know, like you can't do that to a person of power. You know, it happened in the time of the Buddha. Buddha had a cousin who he loved, who was a student of his, Devadatta. And Devadatta was like, oh, hey, my cousin all of a sudden is a popular. And then he's like, well, I'm going to undermine him because I'm a person. I don't respect him, and I want the power that he has." So Devadatta started going around telling the monks, Buddha's lame, you guys should follow me. So he got a bunch of monks to quit. He was just doing terrible things. And he was negative, he had bad etiquette, he didn't have respect. And Buddha was very concerned about him. Because he's like, oh, he's doing something that's bad etiquette. It's not respecting the Dharma. And Buddha wasn't mad at him. He just was concerned. And then Devadatta did these bad things. And he's like, oh, I really want to teach enlightenment. I don't want people to go in a bad way, but people do. So, you know, Ananda, one of Buddha's close associates, was like, what's happening to Devadatta? And the Buddha was like, I'm really concerned about him because he's doing things that are not dharma, poor etiquette, disrespectful in a school, and he's going in a really bad way. He creates tremendously negative karma. So, etiquette is important. Bad karma for a spiritual teacher or a spiritual It leads to terrible consequences. Yeah, think about Judas.

0:16:51
What was his karma?

0:16:52
Bad karma. Devadatta. I mean, bad karma, like Buddha was like saying, wow, this is a family member, I love him, but he's going to hell. He's going to hell dimensions. He's going to hell dimensions. He's going to be reincarnated in hell because he's so mad against enlightenment. So yeah, you don't want to be against Buddha, the Dharma, the Sangha. It's just really bad. Respect your opportunities. See that they're real, that they're good, and have good etiquette. Respect each other.

0:17:45
Respect the school.

0:17:46
And if you don't want to respect the school, just leave.

0:17:52
Don't make bad karma.

0:17:54
Judas made bad karma with Jesus. He was like, I am going to turn you in. Devadatta made bad, I mean, Devadatta could just walk away. But he's like, no, I'm jealous, I'm angry, whatever, I'm reactive, and I'm gonna tell people things bad about you and get monks to leave your school. Just, if you don't like it, just go away. The door, the exit door is everywhere. But the karma door, if you're negative against a spiritual teacher in a spiritual school, Buddha, Jesus, I'm not Buddha or Jesus, but don't mess with me. I'm happy pop Buddhism. But I'm for real. I'm happy pop martial arts. But if you question my martial arts, then come to me. And I'll say, oh, you want to question me? I'll show you. But people don't do that. They go into like, oh, ah, blah, blah, blah. But that's what fake people do. Like, if you want to question my martial arts, I'll always show you. You think it's lame. But you also, like, enlightenment is just an idea to people. It's not an idea. That's why I want you to read this book. This book tells you the intention, the mind, the awareness of enlightenment. Like a great martial artist can tell you the mind of martial arts. I remember one time there was this ST2. He was 6'5", 220 pounds of muscle. He was in like all sorts of sports and football. He'd been, you know, in a few fights. And then in our school, he was like, oh, you know, our teacher is telling us to go to martial arts dojo. So he came to my martial arts dojo. And he was really good. He was athletic, he was strong, he was young, he was fit, he was And I saw him, like, fighting, participating, you know, someone who was on, like, Orange Belt, and I was like, this guy is really good. And then he just thought he was good. He's like, I don't see a difference between me and a black belt. And then he fought me. And when he fought me, I dominated him, I had control, I didn't hurt him. And he couldn't get me. He used everything he had to try to get me. And I'm like, you know, I'm a martial artist. And then afterwards he was like, whoa, he's like, now I know what a martial artist is.

0:21:05
Now I know.

0:21:06
He's like, I always thought just from my condition awareness that I'm strong and I can do anything. That's what a lot of Bodhans think. I'm amazing! I'm a millennial! You know, so that's why I want you to read this book. Because this book shows what enlightenment is. Enlightenment, it's funny, it's not impossible. It's not impossible at all. It's very impossible, but it's a real thing. But it takes a certain kind of conditioning and training and work, and it can happen. Like humility can happen. But it's special. How do you just become humble? Like you have to open your heart and you have to care and you go, I'm humble. And humility is a beautiful thing. How do you become pure? You could become pure, but it kind of takes a letting go. Humility and purity takes a letting go of stuff that creates trouble. So, but you can do it. But if I say to you, be humble now, you're like, hmm.

0:22:33
Yeah, so, yes, the Bodons, there's a great opportunity here.

0:22:38
But you have to have the right etiquette and please have the right respect. And if you mess up with enlightenment, it is bad karma. Just like, oh, Yama was nice because he gave it to him right away. But I don't do that at all.

0:22:56
I just go, huh?

0:22:57
You get mad at me? You want to leave? You go into all sorts of bad thoughts? It's just, that's going to happen to you. It's a bad situation. You know, like, there were so, there were people like, you know, Buddha's cousin, Devadatta. There were other people who had bad intent towards Buddha. And even Jesus, there were some people who had bad intent because eventually they murdered him on a cross. Man, I would not like to have the karma to be in that camp. It's bad karma. So that's not what we're about here. If you have trouble, you're worried, you don't like something, just leave. Don't make that problem in your mind. Just disappear. Just go, I want to go somewhere else. Do something else. Fine. But don't make bad karma. Don't have disrespect. Don't think bad thoughts. Don't have bad feelings. Just, if it's a problem, there's a door everywhere.

0:24:19
Now, showdowns.

0:24:20
Some Shodons are like, I'm not enlightened yet, what's wrong with me? There's nothing wrong with you. You can't rush enlightenment. I know that there's this thing called the fast path, which we're on, but you have to respect your place on the path. If you're a Shodon, you're good. But you can't push it. Like if you sit there and go, hmm, I see some other Shodans became enlightened, so I should do it too. That's self. You can't do that. It will never work. Never push yourself and say, I need it. Even if every other Shodan becomes enlightened, you can't say, now I If you do that, then it just never works.

0:25:15
It just doesn't work.

0:25:16
So don't push. Just perfect your practice. That's it. And you know, even if everybody else becomes enlightened, you should be like, I'm happy to work on my practice where I am. You can never compare yourself to another person, ever, in spirituality. If you do that, it just cuts you off. If someone inspires you, cool, but you can't compare yourself and say, oh, that person said so, I should do this. That's along Shodans don't try to push it. Just, you can't sit there and go, I'm going to get enlightened in this meditation because that's a concept. It will never happen. Just practice perfect meditation. Practice perfect yoga. Just try to deer butt sleep. And then it can happen. It can happen. Enlightenment can happen. It's not this impossible thing that a lot of people think. Only Buddha, only Jesus, only this, only that. No! It's an actual thing that can happen. But you have to do it right. Doing it right happens, if you do it right. Martial arts happens if you do it right. It's just that we're in a world where a lot of people don't believe in spirit. But spirit's real, like enlightenment's real. Enlightenment is real. So, don't try to push it. And if you're a shodan, if you're not enlightened, don't say you're enlightened. It's so bad. This is one of Buddha's main teachings for his students. He said, if you're not enlightened, he's like, never say that you have an attainment that you don't have. It's just bad karma, because you're a liar. You're like, oh, I'm enlightened. And everyone goes, wow, and you're not. And it's not good. So just don't do it. Being a fully empowered Shodan is good enough. It's good to be a fully empowered Shodan. That means like you're a black belt in the school I mean like and it's a strong school and the empowerments that Shodans get are very powerful. You can lead desert trips, you can do this you know you can develop the Siddhas, it like you on is good. Don't try to push some weird thing that you're trying to get out of it. Yeah, shodons are strong. So, the shodon level in Buddhist school was called the non-returner. So Buddha was like, you're the stream winner, you're the once-returner, you're the non-returner, then you're finally full enlightenment, the arhant. And if you're a non-returner, it's a strong thing. And then we have like all sorts of mystical structures that Buddha didn't have. He had his own way. But if you're a non-returners who are super powerful and strong and amazing teachers, and Arhants would prefer to them, they'd be like, okay, you know, I let go of the self, but in this circumstance, I can go to a non-returner who's super strong, who can bring more Dharma than me. So, there's many stories where our haunts refer to non-returners. And so, if you're a Shodan, don't feel like you're less. Do your Dharma. Be as strong as you can. Do your Dharma. Yeah, and don't think, oh, well, I'm not enlightened. Well, maybe you're not going to be enlightened. I don't care if you're in line. Do Dharma. Stop thinking like I need to get to something. Just do your Dharma. Perfect your practice. Express your Dharma. We're in a multi-incarnational situation. So you don't look at a showdown and say there's something wrong with you because you're not enlightened yet? Is something wrong with you? You guys are like, oh, let me teach you the way to enlightenment. Like, it's like swimming, right? And I'll throw you in the deep end of the pool. And that part of swimming is no problem, it's just the burlap sack that makes it troublesome. So the thing is that you're adding something, you're adding, swimming is great, right? Everyone swims, but when you're adding that sack that they're in, that you're adding something an idea or something so you're like a concern that's not true so really arhants look at the the shodans and the bodhans and say they're on their journey and they're great you can't look at a yellow belt you know be a black belt and say, there's something wrong with you. No, they're on their journey. You can't look at a brown belt and say there's something wrong with you. All you do is show them the way that, you know, you show them by being a black belt. You don't have to fix them, you just show them, I'm a black belt, here's what we do. So, you know, you kind of have to lay off. I mean, you walk to a yellow belt, or to a showdown or a boat on, they don't have to be at the level you're at. You're like, oh my God, here's my light level, and you're not there, so you have to get up there. Don't do that. And for all you arhants, my level of meditation is way beyond yours, and I don't push it on you, I show you. I'm like Gordon Ramsay making a beef Wellington. Like my level of perfection is super high. You know, Gordon Ramsay, when someone fucks up a beef Wellington, he's all like, oh God!

0:32:50
Rah!

0:32:52
You know, he goes all crazy. But I don't go crazy. I'm like, oh.

0:32:56
Hmm.

0:32:58
You get it? So, no, it's true. Like, my level of attention, focus, and meditation, I don't, even Arhant's, I don't push that on you, but I'll show you. I'm like, this is what I do. And you go, oh. And then there's room to grow. But if I go, oh my gosh, your beef wellington is bad! It's bad in all these ways, I don't do that. I'm like, let me show you a higher way. And then... It becomes harmful. You know, you're an arhant. Don't be harmful. You're like, hmm, you look at someone and you're like, you're not as good, there's trouble, I have to fix it.

0:33:47
I have to fix it.

0:33:48
You know, the problem is that I have wings and you have arms, so let me cut your arms off and then I'll tie on some wings. Don't do that, don't do that.

0:34:03
You're like a...

0:34:05
Ugh, it's bad. An apple a day keeps the doctor away if you throw it really hard.

0:34:11
Yeah, I'm sorry.

0:34:17
Don't push too hard. Let it be. Arhant's just... Like, don't push so hard. Great teachings, Arhants. Great teachings. Shodhants. Great teachings. But don't push individuals to hurt. We show the way. It's like if there was like some fat person and you're like, oh, well, I want you to be healthy. I want you to be thin and athletic and have a good diet, right? Because that's the Dharma. So cool that you see the Buddha nature in everybody. But if you go over to that person, you gotta do it the right way. You say, hmm, hey, wanna go jogging together? Hey, let's have a salad, right? That's the right way. But if you go over and say, let me fix your fatness.

0:35:06
Don't be so stupid.

0:35:07
Then they might start doing bad things, right? So you're like, you're right, but you're trying to just tell them, stop, you guys go, stopping unenlightened. And guess what happens? They become more unenlightened. They react.

0:35:29
You tell a fat person, stop being fat.

0:35:30
I'm going to fix your fat. You're stupid. And then they start doing, they start to do, like, they go, oh, oh, hmm, and then they actually don't do the thing that helps them, they start doing something bad. Like they start going, hmm, I'm going to start cutting myself another slice of cake. You guys get that? You know, but they do something that's bad. So, you can't just say to someone, stop being unenlightened. Like tell a bad person, stop being bad. No, what you do is you say, let's exercise, let's meditate. It's like you show them the way. You don't just tell them. It's so bad, because like, you know, I really appreciate that you guys see the enlightened nature of people, but it's bad when you say, oh, you're enlightened. And then they come over to me and say, oh, Anarhant told me I'm enlightened. And I'm like, oh, yeah, but you're not. And then they go, oh, it like sends them backwards. Don't do that. And then also, like, there's some Bodhans who had a Samadhi and they go to an Arhat and go, wow, I had this amazing experience. And then the Arhat, so one Samadhi or maybe even a hundred Samadhis, that's not enlightenment. Samadhi is not enlightenment, by the way. It's a perfect state of mind. It's a great meditation. Wonderful. I like it. I do it. But it's not enlightenment. So when a Bodon has a Samadhi and goes to an Arhat, and then the Arhats start telling them the advanced teachings from the Kala Chakra. And I'm like, seriously? Because I've had day one students walk in who don't know nothing and they have Sravakapa Samadhi. Am I going to give them the Kala Chakra, empowerment, the advanced teachings? No, they have to do the work. They have to go through... You don't get a black belt because you walk in and you can break a board in one day, lucky, or do a good kick in one day. You don't get a black belt, you know, I told you, Arhant, I gave you these enlightened transmissions, like the Kalachakra Advanced Teachings, and I said, never give these teachings to anyone else unless you want to fuck them over. Because the moment someone has a concept, because I had 20 years of teaching where all my students were like really working, and for me, for those 20 years, the advanced teachings was the most important thing. It was what I did all the time. I never said it for 20 years. And then I said it, and it worked. So if you tell a Bodon the advanced teachings, they have a concept. And then when they get... Without the empowerment. And they're not ready for the empowerment. And so when they have the concept, you just killed them. You killed their Kala Chakra.

0:39:09
You killed it.

0:39:10
Because you gave them a concept. Then when they get the Kala Chakra empowerment, they're like, I already have a concept about this. So, that's what I said, and there's one way I can describe you. In one word, bad at taking directions. Like, are you an arhant who is impeccable? I mean, like, if you do this, it's tremendous. You're like, oh, let me start telling you the things about the Kalachakra, the advanced teachings. Are you kidding? Whoa. So, someone had a, this is the worst thing to do, someone had a Samadhi experience, which is a great experience. And you go, now let me tell you the Kalachakra. Oh, man, you made such a huge mistake. You really messed that person up. So I've got Bodhran saying, oh I think I'm enlightened. And I'm like, no, I mean, this is the process of awakening. There are samadhis, there are experiences of divine energy. That's not enlightenment. It's good. It's on the way there. Don't think it's there. Just because you can... This is why I want you guys to read this book so you understand that enlightenment is actually a condition of mind. It's not just a nice meditation. Because when you have a nice meditation, great! But then what? So, Arhats, seriously, take it down a notch. You're messing up Bodhans Like, don't do that. Don't do that. Like, look at what I've done. I didn't sit there day one saying, oh, all of a sudden, you know, I'm awakened, so I'm gonna share everything. I never did. I always developed the white belts to the yellow belt, the yellow belt to the orange belt. I developed people properly. If you start just telling everybody everything, then it doesn't develop them, they can't. And you also, it just doesn't work. In spirituality, if you give people the most advanced concepts that are in your mind, then they go, oh, yeah, here's what enlightenment is, day one, and then they go, huh, cool, I have an idea, and now I can quit. Because I have an idea, it's a concept, but there's actually a training of attention, of mind, of consciousness that happens in the study. And every time that you say, oh, that's cool, you're enlightened because, boom, I think I see your Buddha nature, so boom. They don't see their Buddha nature. You see their Buddha nature. I see your Buddha nature. And I train you. I don't say, you're fat, here's how you fix it. I say, let's exercise together. Let's eat a salad. You know, like, let's do these things. This is the way it goes. I don't do too much. I also told you guys a long time ago, I'm like, look at Agni, Kala and Shiva. They are super strong. And every time that they come to you, what they always want to do is show you the highest point that they're at. And I kept on pointing out to them, why are you doing that? It's way, look at the people you're trying to teach. If you're just showing them the highest point that you're in in your mind, it's just gonna be crazy for them. It doesn't help. Like, it's like if I go to a greenbelt and I'm like, let me show you a, you know, a double tornado kick. They don't know what it is. They can't do it. I can do it because I've been training for so long

0:43:10
for something, right?

0:43:11
So you don't, you don't cope. This is the highest place in my consciousness and now I'm going to tell you how to do it. They can't do it. Don't, don't push them into it. So I, I, I used to have to like yell at Agni Kala and Shiva. I'm like, stop, why are you doing this? Look at where these people are at. You can't teach them that technique. It's too high. They can't do it. And then people go, oh, it's interesting and amazing. And then they can't do it. And then it doesn't build them up to that place. It just shows them there's a gap. And this is a big thing that is in Buddhism. In Buddhism, you read a book about Buddha. Most Buddhists think Buddha was enlightened and no one else is. They think there's a gap. So there can't be a gap. There is a way to enlightenment, but you have to go through this. You have to develop it. It's not an idea, it's not a concept, it doesn't happen just like by you going, oh, I should do it, I want it. It never happens that way. It happens if you do the work, and there is a structured path in the Theravada Buddhist teachings, there's part of it. I mean, the information is there. And also, Tibetan Buddhism is there. But that's just the foundation. There are structures that you have to do and work on. And if you do that, it happens. Enlightenment is real. But don't do it too much. You know, I remember there was this story, I think it was Hakuen, a Zen master, and he had this one student, and he was enlightened, he was an Arhat, and he had this one student and he pushed him too hard and the guy went crazy. So he's like, hmm, it's like, I showed him something that was really enlightened, really powerful, really wonderful, but it was too much for that guy. And then the student went crazy. So Hawken went and saw, hmm, I need to bring this down a level. So yeah, Arhans, bring it down a level. Don't just say, you're fat, here's how you fix it. Walk the path with people and show them in your, by your own example, how to do things right. Don't just tell them, don't just recognize. I want you to show them. If you don't show them and if you just tell them and say, well I realize it, and you start telling them the advanced teachings and everything, so bad. Don't do that. You can't do that. It's just not the right way. At the same time, I have to say that Shodans and Arhants, you know, like I have to give these corrections from time to time because this is how you guys get better, but I remember when you guys, when Shodans and Arhants first started doing teachings, I would be like, oh my goodness. You guys remember, right? I was like, oh my goodness, it's so bad. And then so I started giving corrections and I started saying, oh my gosh, we gotta change. And then we went through a whole change and now every Shodan and Arhat that gives a teaching, it's amazing. It's really, really powerful, good dharma. Your teachings, the way that you guys teach is proper, it's strong, it's good, it's wonderful. So I'm very happy with how things are working. And Shodans and Arhants can do transmissions. You guys do transmission teachings really wonderfully, properly, like I want you to be, don't tell anybody anything, show the way, right? You want to tell someone stopping fat? Exercise, show them exercise, right? Show them how to have a good diet, eat good, encourage them that way, but don't just say, you're fat, I'm gonna fix it. You're not enlightened, I'm going to fix it. You can't do that. So in your teachings, you guys are showing the way. Don't give people advice beyond that. Show them.

0:47:52
So teachings are going really well. Very happy with that.

0:47:54
This is something that's very encouraging. And it's also something that is I think going to be very helpful going forward. So you guys know I hang out with these seven enlightened teachers in New York. I joined their club and they're really really really good. So they are very concerned about my health and they're very concerned about the way that I'm engaging with my Sangha because they say, that's not good for you. That's just only so much that the aura can take and the physical body can take. And they go, you know, look what happened to Rama, look what happened to Sahaja, that's what happened.

0:48:43
But for a long time, I was just like,

0:48:45
you know, they're like in our yoga, which I do with them, it's so high. It is really high. And they go, and it's so amazing. And it helps all beings in the universe. Yeah, like bodhisattva. I mean, but it's really, they're really good. And then they're all, see, isn't this better? So now you don't want to do that. And I'm like, it is better, but I'm still going to do that. And then they kept telling me, well, ours is higher, so you should stop doing this thing with your students. And I'm like, yeah, it's not going to happen. So finally, they said, hmm, we have to think about, you know, Sambar's not listening to us. They're all like, wait, let's talk in terms of his interest. What does he want to do? Oh, he wants to help the students. So then they're like, OK. And I keep telling them, it's so funny when I'm with them because they're super funny and they always make fun of me, but I also am funny and I make fun of them. Anyway, so they're like, so how can we help Samara achieve his goals of helping his fondant? So we've been talking about it for a while. But anyway, here's the idea. So they're like, hmm, you have a bunch of arhants now who are really good at initiations, empowerment, transmissions, and all that. And all that, all the empowerments that I give are of the navel chakra. They're empowerments. Except for the kala chakra, which is the advanced teaching. And I remember when Rama gave us that, he was like, up until now, all, and he did lots of empowerments, he was like, they were all naval, but this is the one that's at the crown. This is the first of the enlightenment empowerments. And we're like, whoa. And the Kala Chakra was significant. And he never gave us another one, but he said that there are many. And I was like, hmm. Okay. And then for me, you know, I gave you guys the Kala chakra, but then I came to understand another one, which was the Enlightenment teaching, which was also quite powerful. But they say that they know hundreds of enlightened empowerments. And they're like, we can teach you that. And it's very high in spiritual. And then all these like lower empowerments that are so significant to developing someone all the way up to enlightenment. They said, you're enlightened students, your aunts can do those. They can! I see them doing it. I've seen arhants do empowerments. I've seen them do initiations. I've seen them do transmissions and do power trips. So I'm like, okay. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go to New York and I'm going to study with them to learn the higher enlightened empowerments and then I'm going to say I want you Shodons and Arhants to be really impeccable in teaching. Come together and really be able to do what I did for you because you guys can. And then I'll get more of the enlightened empowerment teachings. And like you saw what the Kalachakra did to you and you saw what the enlightenment teaching, three nights of that, did. And if I can learn more of those, then I'll come and I'll teach, you know, the Shorans and Arhats that. But then I want you guys to be able to run the show like as like really a mystical school, an esoteric school of empowerment, of transmissions. But you guys are doing it, you're capable of it, all you have to do is do it impeccably. And you do impeccable teaching. So I just, you know, like the thing I'm telling you right now, it's like, don't mess people up, you know, so fine-tune me.

0:53:14
Don't mess people up, fine-tune me.

0:53:16
But these are the ways that you use this great power of transmission and enlightenment where it's helpful. Even Haakon, he messed up with a student and he made that guy go crazy. And he's like, hmm, fix this. So, this is the new way. So I'm going away to New York for a while after the Equinox. I'm going to do my Euro tour, then I'm going to go to New York, and I'm going to hang out with them. They're so funny. They're like, New York, New York, New York. I'm like, and I've gone to visit them in New York. I'm like, yeah, you know, I've lived in New York for 10 years I'm like I know New York and I'm like it's not Hawaii. Every time I come back to Hawaii I'm like Hawaii. But you know there is power in New York and it'll be nice to be able to show you, you know, the next levels of enlightenment if I have more enlightened teachings. Isn't that cool? So, that's the deal. Sounds good, right? So, we're going to make a change. So I will continuously tell our Hans and Shodans and Bodans the things you need to know to straighten things out, get things better, make it work better. And I'm going to go higher and I'm going to teach you more. We're going to work this out. But I also am like, well, showdowns and arhats, there's some work that you guys need to do. The org is important. I still feel a deficiency in the org, but the org has to be strong so that I can go and give you guys higher teachings. Because if the org is a mess, then I can't. and give you guys higher teachings, because if the org is a mess, then I can't. So our Sangha has to be strong. So that means don't mess each other up, focus properly and work together, work in your yoga, work in the organization so things are strong. And then things get better. This is a place of transformation where we can get better, but you gotta do your part. And don't be an idiot. I'm gonna go to New York. I'll be hailing cabs, which is even worse than reining dogs and cats. All right, we're gonna end with a meditation. So we're gonna sit and we're gonna focus on the third eye. One song. ♪♪

0:56:34
So so so so Oh, baby so So, So So So, So so so ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ All right. Thank you very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
