0:00:00
Hey everyone. Hey hey. Okay. All right. I hope you guys are there. Otherwise, if there's a power's out in Kona or something, we'll record this and you can get the recording. Today I'd like to talk about seriously intense stuff, which is expanding enlightenment. So expanding enlightenment, growing enlightenment. So this means, you know, where your Buddha nature is, you bring it out. If it's for the first time, then you have moksha. If you've had moksha, primary enlightenment, then what happens is you start to grow this awareness into your whole life. So expanding your enlightenment. So Rama called that integrating. It's like you have to integrate it into your whole life. Because the moment of liberation is a moment where you have a good meditation and the self is gone. You're one with everything. And then you have to say, now what does that mean to me when I'm, you know, when someone, you know, at Safeway is hitting me from behind with a shopping cart and it hurts, you know, like what does that mean? Where's my, where's the enlightenment of my whole life? So that's what I'd like to talk to you about today. And the first part is, you can't rush enlightenment. It's like that old Phil Collins song, you can't hurry love, you know you just have to wait. But yeah, it's like that with enlightenment. You can't rush enlightenment. You can't say, I'm going to go and get my moksha. I'm going to go out there and hunt a moksha. It's not going to happen. And if you're, you know, primary liberated, you want to go up to the Sambhoga Buddha, you can't go, I'm just going to go do that. It just happens when you practice. So definitely, definitely don't try to rush anything. So especially for shodans who are not liberated, if you try to rush it, or you try to go, I'm gonna, even though you're on the fast path to enlightenment, you can't rush it. Rama always used to say, you know, don't fake it, do it. And he also said, there's no shortcuts on the pathway to enlightenment, even if you're on the fast path. There's no shortcuts. You have to do it for real. So don't try to skip steps or anything like that. Go through the self. Go all the way. You got to look at yourself, look at your mind, look at your karmas. You have to meditate. Go into deeper meditation. So So there's no rushing, there's no shortcut. It's just, the shortcut is directly pointing to your own mind, directing your attention to your own mind. And then that's what elevates you. for all Shodhams, once we're arhants or not, remember the Kala Chakra meditation technique. Don't give up on that. I know that you know maybe once you become an arhant you go, oh you know it's really easy for me to sit down and just still my mind to go into light. I would say you still have a lot more to learn in the Kala Chakra. So I didn't, um, I did the Kala Chakra for a long time. I did it all the way through the first three levels. I did Kala Chakra all the way through, you know, or sorry, four levels. I did it through Moksha, I did it through Primary, did it through Sambhoga, and I did it through Dharmata. on the top. I just, you know, like I would start my meditation that way. And then of course when you go to Issa Chah, you're going to Samadhi, you're not like going back to that method because that method, you know, it just gets you, gets your energy going, gets you going up. But don't give up on that because the dimensions in that meditation, you know, I like to say that, you know, there's four dimensions for chakra, but actually, if you look at that color, the colors themselves connect to thousands of dimensions. And there are so much magic that this is the basic practice that ignites many of the siddhas in our school, many of the structures in the school. So, you know, don't give up on it. Understand it more deeply. I know it's a weird thing. Boom, boom, boom, right? But do it. And then, and then it always raises a lot of kundalini and then you can go and be in high states of mind and stop thought and that's totally fine. Then don't, yeah, don't go back down to a technique. But when you go into Samadhi from that technique, it's like, that's the root and then the lotus opens. So it's quite special. Impeccability. Impeccability is always the case. So if you're a Shodan who's not an Arhant yet, be an impeccable Shodan. That's all you have to do. If you're an impeccable Shodan, enlightenment will happen for you in its way at the right time without a doubt. So don't worry. Don't worry. You're not behind if you're a Shodan who's not an Arhat. There's no behind in enlightenment. You know, it's just walking the path properly. And you know enlightenment is a funny thing. If you just do the practice, it sneaks up on you and you get it, right? But it's not something that you can overthink. You can't try for. It's just too much. The self will just get caught into itself. So you have to be double impeccable. It's like there's a whole whole different thing in a martial arts school. Like you have to be an impeccable brown belt, you know, all you know, and you got to be an impeccable white belt. As long as you're impeccable, you'll always go up to the next level. But if you're an impeccable brown belt, you're like, okay, there's a certain power of this, and I have to be impeccable at this level. But once you get your black belt, it's a whole different level of impeccability. You're the standard of the school, right? There's a higher level. It's like, oh my gosh, if a brown belt does something and messes up, so yeah, he's still a brown belt. But if a black belt does that technique, messes up, then oh my gosh, what are we to think about this? It's a bigger deal. So once you become liberated, you have to be more impeccable, what happens is you'll be a goofball, and then you'll find yourself in a fixed state of attention. And if you find yourself in a fixed state of attention, after your spirit has gone and merged with Nirvana, then that fixed state of attention will be extremely painful. It will be a total path of suffering. So, it's not just a normal affair. It might be the same thoughts that you thought before you were liberated, but when that condition sinks in on you, that state of mind happens, that limited state of attention, it is totally painful. So Buddha said, for an arhant, they would rather drink a bowl of molten lava than to think a thought of desire. This is for an arhant. Now imagine before your liberation, you thought all sorts of thoughts of desire, no problem. You're like, oh, I want that, I want that. And guess what? It didn't seem to have that big of a deal. Didn't make you suffer, hardly, you didn't notice, right? You're like, I don't know, I feel fine thinking that I want some cake or a Ferrari, right? Or those awesome shoes, right? Something like that, right? Like, no big deal. You thought thoughts of desire. You saw them all the time. That was your operating system. Now, after enlightenment, after moksha, after primary enlightenment, your spirit connected and was one with the universe. Now if you start to think in the old ways of desire or enmity, if you go into, you know, some skaras that bring you back down, you're going to find yourself creating a trap for an enlightened person. You will trap yourself into a condition that is way more painful than when you were not enlightened. Way, way, way more painful. If you are not impeccable as an Arhat, everything goes and you find yourself in a concrete structure that you just shut out enlightenment from because you were unimpeachable. And that is to a regular incarnate self-ego, that's just the way things go. But having been free, you're like, ow, it's the biggest pain. So again, this is what Buddha said. He said, haunt would rather have the pain of drinking a bowl of lava, which kind of would be painful for a while, then it would be over. Drinking a bowl of lava rather than thinking one thought of desire. So our haunts, you have to be double impeccable. You can't be like, it's not the same deal as what it was when you were not in our hunt. It is so much more important for you. And then when you are impeccable as in our hunt, you just flow. And then every day is a happy meditation. Every day is a beautiful day of yoga. Every day of your life is a greater experience, a deeper integration of enlightenment to your life. Isn't that beautiful? That's my experience. SD3s will recall me and Mandala and Sananda, you know, we became enlightened around the same time and we were impeccable. We worked, we all did, it's like what happened, we got enlightened, we did lots of yoga, we were on a drive for dharma and we were impeccably working towards it and we all experienced deeper meditations every day. Brighter, we got more powerful, we're happier. Every day was the Dharma unfolding. So I want you guys to be thus impeccable. And it's important because, you know, being enlightened doesn't mean that it's over. You're like, oh, okay. Enlightenment means, check mark, got that done, everything in life is easy now. I'll sit on silk pillows, I'll have people fanning me and feeding me grapes. I don't know, whatever, right? No, after enlightenment, it's harder. I'm telling you the truth. I mean, look at Rama's life, right? He was a super strong Buddha, and he just had a hard time after he got enlightened and was teaching, because he got bad press. He had the craziest students in the universe. that. And he's the guy for that. Oh wait, I was one of the students. But I have good students. You guys are good. He had to deal with the difficult ones. I have to deal with the normal enlightened people. So, after enlightenment, it's not easy. It's just that you're better. You've seen beyond the self, so you have greater resources to connect with eternity, to manifest all the things in the structure of the school. There's so many things in the school you can help people with. to free itself and impeccable, then things go well. But it doesn't mean that it's easy. One of the great enlightened beings of our world was Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ had such a spark of spirit that it created Christianity. But Jesus had a really hard time. Jesus became enlightened, and he was sharing massive powers of enlightenment. People were moved. It created something so powerful that it created this whole gigantic world religion. It was a very powerful thing. Jesus was the real deal. Jesus was very powerful, very enlightened. However, the world doesn't like enlightened people very much.

0:16:32
The world is like, enlightened people?

0:16:35
What do we do to them? Call them cult leaders? String them up on a cross? You know, that's what they did to Jesus. They, to this powerful, enlightened being, the hubris of man, took him and, you know, chastised him, beat him terribly, and then killed him in crucifixion. That is not an easy sitting on silk pillows experience. So enlightenment is not easy. Once you get enlightened, it doesn't mean that you're sitting on silk pillows. I mean, buy silk pillow. I'll send you the link on Amazon. I have one. But you know, it's like, life is not gonna be easy in this Kali Yuga for an enlightened person. I don't care how enlightened you are. It's not easy. So thinking I'm gonna get enlightened and then it's gonna be easy? No. Actually, that's when you get in the game. That's when you that's when you have an awakening and and and you start to have a greater Dharma that comes to help this world. So we gotta, we, I'm changing for you Shodans and Arhans the idea of enlightenment being the way out. It is the way out. It's literally the way out. You sit in enlightened awareness and you're free. But then you're incarnate and that's why we are showdowns, because we are fighters, we're strong, we're empowered, and we're impeccable. So it's not easy for an enlightened person in this world. And Jesus was a long time ago, and guess what? Things got worse. So it's not easy. So we have to really be strong. We have to be strong, independent, powerful. Powerful showdowns. And, you know, with Jesus, what Rama said was, you know, Jesus was around a long time. Ancient soul coming here many, many, many times ever since Atlantis, ancient Egypt, China, India, Japan, not Tibet, he wasn't in Tibet for some reason, but Jesus was this Buddha of the ages, one of the greats of our world. And in past lives, when Jesus faced even more dire circumstances, because he had a greater integration of enlightenment, he was able to deal with that stuff. Little be a master. But as some of you know, when you first become liberated, I did this myself, you become liberated and you go, oh, everything's cool. It doesn't matter if I live or die. Everything is love and everything is enlightenment. And whether there's a win or loss, who cares? You know, there's a little bit of that, that there's a big part of that that happens with enlightenment, but because we have so much strong, focused disciplines of power in our school, we don't think that. Like, it's really important. We say, wait a minute, even though this is some liberation and everything is one, I live in the real world, I mean, the unreal world, the samskaric world. And I have to say, in this world, I need to watch my back. I need to be careful in all these ways. I have to have tonal, I have to be impeccable. And then you are able to exist in this world with enlightened awareness, but being super strong and smart. So our, our school always is focused on the fundamental things that make you powerful so that when you are enlightened, that you don't be a big goofball and go get messed up. So, yeah, Rama pointed out, he's like, hey, Jesus didn't do a good job. He was too new. He didn't integrate his enlightenment. In past lives, he had faced much more difficult things, and he had tremendous skill. He's a very strong Buddha, but he was just barely a Buddha. And he was in this state where everything was just lovely. And he's just truth everywhere, truth everywhere. Ramakrishna went through that too. Ramakrishna was like, truth, truth. And he would go over to like, you know, like great teachers or Brahmin priests. And he would just slap them in the face and say, not truth.

0:22:26
And he was right,

0:22:27
because he's showing them that they had some dogma, but he didn't make a lot of friends that way. But he's just like, not truth. And then eventually he integrated his enlightenment more. And he's like, in the past, I used to go over and yell at people and point out that, but he's like, I don't do that anymore. I mean, he came to a higher level. And this is what we do. We get to a higher level, which is being impeccable, where the energy is more integrated. But for enlightened people on this planet, we have all these really good stories of saints and stuff like that who did it right, and they were impeccable. But there are, you could be an enlightened person who has so tremendous trouble. Jesus had trouble. And I would say, you know, Shannon from the SD2 group, he had a wonderful sangha. He taught them such beautiful, deep, magical teachings. It got them on the path and made them so happy. And so that was cool. You're like, wow. But then later on, he went too much into the occult. He was unimpeccable in the occult. And then guess what happens when you do that? The becomes this fixed thing of your attention. It is definitely a different attention than just desire or something in the physical world. It is a totally different world. It's magical, it's like many more things going on. But he went into that and he was, I mean it's a big arena, but he was unimpeccable and he got caught up in the power and it created that fixed condition of tension. beautiful teachings, but then he got too caught up in the occult, got into a fixed condition, and then he suffered like crazy. And then he went crazy. He suffered like crazy, and then he went crazy. So I was talking to a couple of his students, and they were like, they're taking care of him now, which is good. They should help their teacher who gave them so much who's now he's broken. But they should help him. It's just that he's broken. And he's broken as a really enlightened guy who taught so many things of enlightenment. He's broken because he was unimpeccable. And he got stuck and broke. So, it's funny if you think enlightenment has to be the freedom. That it's sitting on silk pillows, that everything's good from there. But no, you could be enlightened and go fucking crazy. It's totally possible. You don't hear students of, I mean I've read all the Buddhist stories, I've never heard of a student of Buddha going crazy, but it happens and it can happen. We're in a more mental age now and so it happens It's more possible and prevalent in this age than it was a thousand years ago. So it's possible to be enlightened and crazy. Enlightenment is not the answer. I mean, enlightenment's nice, but if you don't have impeccability, and if you don't have have the powers of showdown, like, oh my gosh, you're not prepared, you're not ready for everything. You know, Emerson pointed this out, and he's very wise. Emerson said, the the world is the integrity of your own mind.

0:27:15
And that's true.

0:27:22
And Buddha talked about this too in the Dhammapada, you guys will remember. Buddha said the Arhant, he said the person of wisdom, the Arhant, the enlightened one. Their greatest possession is their watching. They watch their mind.

0:27:44
And that is their greatest possession. And do you know what that is?

0:27:47
That's impeccability. The greatest possession of an enlightened one is to be impeccable. That ability to have clear seeing, to watch your mind, keeps you out of trouble, keeps you out of stepping into a thought of desire, a thought of anger, because those things will create a structure that you will never be able to get out of. So the watching is impeccability of attention. That's Buddhist teaching. This is so important. Once you're enlightened, I mean like I know a lot of enlightened too, is it all better? There is something better. Like there's something in your spirit where you're like free and the self is gone and it's kind of the most important thing. But then life still is here and if you're not impeccable, see I'm talking about impeccability because this is what you guys got to learn. Because you guys have been flowing, having a good time, and all these wonderful things. Good. Happy about that. But impeccability is the thing that you guys have to do. Because when everything's happening, it's so beautiful, that's great. If one little thought of desire comes in, you're stuck, a state of mind. It creates a lot of trouble. So, we are, we're working on this. This is an important thing to understand. Because if you don't do things right, if you don't develop impeccability, don't develop the structures of power of our school, your enlightenment can cause you tremendous trepidation. So this is a school where we become enlightened and we're strong and we're impeccable and we have unity, you have enlightenment, enlightenment's great, but if you don't do the disciplines, you don't have the unity, it's trouble. So let's consider, you know, we have like three or four ST4, ST5s who had moksha and great that's wonderful it's a beautiful thing and the reason why it is it's because of you show dogs we have a really strong school of enlightenment it's it happens you know when there's a really strong school of enlightenment could out of their karma I mean everyone all these SC5s are ancient beings too right they've had very very very very advanced lifetimes but they could just ignite it could be ready so yeah it's possible for SC5s to become liberated. We'll see more. Don't feel jealous.

0:31:44
You should feel inspired.

0:31:45
So this reminds me of that story of Buddha and Bahiya. So Buddha gave a big teaching, he was hanging around, and Bahiya didn't even show up for the teaching. He just came over to Buddha afterwards and he was like, I didn't make it there, but I have a question for you. And he asked some question about like suffering and Buddha gave him a teaching and the teaching was a good solid Dharma teaching. And then Bahiyya became fully enlightened. He became an arhat. He didn't become a stream-winner, a once-returner, a non-returner. He went from never hearing a story of dharma to that one teaching bringing him to become liberated. And Buddha was like, that's good. Now, hanging out there with Buddha was a bunch of his students, arhants, dream winners, non-returners, once-returners. And they were like, we heard the same teaching and it was beautiful, but why did it make this guy enlightened? Like there's all these people following the program, doing all the work to become a stream winner, doing all the work to become the once returner all the work To get to non returner all the work and then finally because that would food is path That's way It's like isn't it that way but what why did this guy just show up and he got? Walked into his first class got a black belt on it right right already. Yeah, that's what it's like. They're like, oh, he shot this. What is that? And Buddha said he was ready. Buddha said it's because the Dharma in our school is raging and people can come. They're interested in their heart. Enlightenment will happen. So we have a school right now where there's a giant flame of enlightenment. It's a very special thing on this whole earth and in the past thousand years. It's a very special thing that we have going on. There will be spirits who are drawn here who will become enlightened before they have to go through the whole structure in the path. So it's gonna happen. So don't be jealous. You just walked in yesterday and now you're enlightened? Yes, please let that be the case. Please don't be don't don't be jealous. Don't think you're lower than anybody. You know, you're a showdown. Just be an impeccable showdown. A white belt has to be impeccable. Anyone at any level, the way to get to the next level is to be impeccable. But you know, someone might walk into your dojo and you're a black belt, but they can kick your ass. It happens in martial arts. I'm not kidding. I'm living proof because I walked into a lot of dojos and kicked people's ass. Yeah, so, you know, give them a break. Now the SD5s are going to work with them in the second attention to support them, but I don't want them to be known. They need to have some time to incubate. Because the most important thing is not that they're actually it's not that they're enlightened, it's that they move from even an enlightening experience to the disciplines of power. Because you know, if someone's enlightened, they can have all these weird ideas and do all sorts of weird things and not have the structures of power that are so necessary for this world. Like someone could be like, so that's the fact that I became enlightened. I'm gonna do whatever I want. Like I know in this school,

0:36:34
there's all these hard things to do.

0:36:35
Like I don't wanna do martial arts and I don't wanna do computer programming. You know what, I like Bali. Bali is a cool place. I think I'll go there and just like meditate and be all enlightened. Like they think they just come up with their own idea from their seeing as a Moksha enlightened person. And they go, I'm going to do what I want because I'm enlightened. Isn't that the point of this school? I got it already. And then they go to Bali, they go around, they're like, that's warm. I never had a good meal there. And, I'm just adding that. But they're liking it. They're like, oh. And then, a demon finds them. Because they're a happy, bright little thing. A yummy, delicious thing for a demon. The demon goes, oh, marsh. And the demon, Oh, Marsh. And the demon, this wonderful enlightened being,

0:37:43
went to the wrong place.

0:37:45
And then a demon attacks them, and the demon for the rest of their life oppresses and possesses them. And they have no mystic skills of defense. They don't know how to get rid of a demon. How would you know how to get rid of a demon? By going to a martial arts class? How would you, you know, it's like, oh, I don't know. You know, you find things out by going to classes and developing yourself. So this person gets, this wonderful in-length person gets into a whole bunch of trouble. So I'm like, that's not what we're here for. We don't want to get them into trouble. So the SD5s who are liberated, they are delicate and I need to see that you showdowns can take this group and elevate them. Because if I see liberated SD5s fall off because they just don't have the power, I'm going to change everything. Right now, you know, we can have the Bahiyas of the world show up and become enlightened and be supportive and be strong. Because then Bahiya became a student of Buddha's and followed him and he learned all that discipline. But if we don't have that, then I'm going to be all, oh, we have to shut things down. I can't let somebody come enlightened and then go through crazy pain and confusion and get attacked by demons and stuff like that because they don't know what they're doing. Just because they have liberation, there's a freedom in liberation. And you know in the 60s that would have been a nice thing. But in this world we are we're like a dojo. We're like martial arts. We're like we know that enlightenment's great, but we also know that we have to be strong. We have to be able to be enlightened and deal with the world with impeccability. Which ability, which means that we don't fall into weird thoughts and we are powerful through our disciplines so that we can handle stuff. See, it's not easy. It's not easy at all. Alright, so we're getting into it now. It's important for you to have an understanding that enlightenment's not the end of everything. Once you're enlightened, there's still a world. There's still life. There's still trouble. Look at Jesus. It's just that you are free.

0:40:50
And you don't have limitations.

0:40:53
But you have to have some discernment about how you apply your attention, where you apply your attention to. You have to be impeccable. You can be enlightened and go do something so stupid. And some enlightened people will do that. And that's their thing, you know, some wild and lame person will go do their own dance in the street, do all sorts of stuff, and you know, that's great. But we have a really mature school where it's like a school of maturity for this time, this age, what we're in, how to be powerful with our enlightenment, how we can be balanced with our enlightenment, how we can be impeccable

0:41:39
So that we don't go weird down

0:41:42
So that we can bring enlightenment to people in a very strong way So you have to Integrate your enlightenment So again, if you have this meditation where you're like, I felt like I'm one with everything. That's enlightenment. Great, wonderful. Then what? Then you have to say, how do I bring that situation, that experience into my whole life? Like, I would say, bring that into your yoga.

0:42:26
Like,

0:42:27
bring that experience of, wow, I just felt I was one with everything or I was totally gone and that was my liberation. Then you say, how do I feel about work? And if you find self in your work that's like, yeah, I'm hedging and I'm playing and I'm messing around, then you're not bringing your enlightenment into your work. You're being, you think of work as limited and you think you're playing the system, but bring your enlightenment to the work. Bring that complete experience of meditation, of connection, of not being self, of being one with everything. Bring that into that work and you don't lose. See that's the thing, it's like part of you is like, oh it's hard, even though I had a liberation, I lose energy doing this. You don't, you're not fully committed and then it's an elevating experience. And look at it, bring your enlightenment to your samskaras, into your karmas. Why are you angry? Bring your enlightenment there. And I'm not just talking to arhants. I mean, arhants, you should do this. But like shurhans, your Buddha nature is within you. Bring your enlightenment to every aspect of your life. Make your Buddha nature as a grace

0:44:09
to every aspect of your life.

0:44:11
All right, let's move on. So we're gonna do a little meditation. I call opening your enlightenment, integrating your enlightenment. If you're a showdown who hasn't had moksha, this is the open door for moksha. And our Hans, this is the open door to a higher integration of enlightenment into your being. So we're going to sit for just one song, focus on the third eye. And in this meditation, I'm gonna open up the mandala, which is the yoga that I'm an expert at. And I just want you to focus on the third eye, and I want you to try to expand your second attention to see the whole mandala. That's worthy of a showdown. Okay. All right, let's sit for one song. so

0:45:24
the the the the So So so Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. You All right, that's very good. For many of you, you saw a very big picture in your mind, in the second attention. This is good.

0:47:01
I want you to be able to grow your second attention to understand the bigger picture of the mandala. So this was Buddha. So after being away from the Ipho-Naxa Solstice, I didn't watch any of your teachings. I was totally on my own retreat, but now I've started to watch all the teachings that I missed, all the recordings. And I have to say that you guys have done a very good job. I think you guys have done a really beautiful job, impeccable teachings by far. A couple things I'll add to teach improvements, but in general, the US showdowns, good structure, good personal stories, insight in every teaching, and powerful transmissions. Those are the four things I want to see in the teaching. So I think you guys have been doing that pretty darn well. Very good. So the one that I want to talk about is the Yeshi Sogil teaching. So this is the first time where a Hungarian Shodan is giving a teaching to the Shodans. Subject was perfect, her background very strong, however it was just informational, right? Just information. Here's a story, here's what happened, here's what's happened. I mean, we can all get that on a Wikipedia page, right? So, what I want to see in a teaching is a good structure, so she had a good structure. Yeah, and I also want to see personal experience. Like, what was the spiritual experience for you?

0:52:30
It didn't come through.

0:52:31
You need to tell a testimony. Like, I translated these books, I know the stuff about her, and here's a very powerful spiritual experience that I had. Gotta tell that story, because that's how people can connect to it. And there has to be insight. So that whole beautiful thing of a lot of information about Yeshe Szilgal, no insight. But when Kali was doing an amazing story about Matilda, it's like that was insight, power, something enlightening, right? Some experience. So with Gyashu Sogyal, we get to the end, and someone asked a question about like, why did you choose Gyashu Sogyal? And you know, because she says, once you think of her, she's there.

0:53:28
Whoa, that's something to work on.

0:53:31
That's something to have a meditation about. It's like, give information. The information was good, but you've got to put in your story You've also got your story of your impact of what this is for you Why it's so enlightening for you, and then you also have to say now one of her amazing teachings is that She says even think of me, and I'm there so let's do a meditation where we think of her, we reflect on her. I gave you this big talk about all these things she did and now let's invoke her and see this enlightened woman who did also another cool thing. She did Bodhisitta, the same practice that we did. She did Tan Leng, the same practice we did. And she has many stories of how she's enlightened people people through it. So it's like there are some really magical things in that, but you have to draw out the magic. You can't just give a boring teaching about just information. Yeah, like you have to give a teaching that has some light and insight. If you give a teaching and you don't have any insight, nothing magical to share, you better think maybe I shouldn't give this teaching. Every teaching that you give, it should be like, you know what I think, I've realized this amazing beautiful thing that I can share as magic. You know, there's so many examples of how the US Shadons did everything so well. Shen did an amazing teaching where he talked about like one of the most beautiful teachings of the heart sutra and he's like this is the the user guide or you know the like this is the user guide for this video game this is the way to win it's like this tells you this thing and he created it this is a beautiful mystical structure. He created a teaching of four lines from the Dhammapada and he created it into a diamond. That's a mystical thing. See you can take words, you can take dharma and create it as an image for people's minds. That was a really wonderful thing. You know there's just so many examples. Everyone did such a beautiful job. Humor, I saw the humor, like Atman when he was talking about balance and how he fell down an escalator. That was so funny. You know, so it's like humor is good. And like you get, you as showdowns, you did everything well. Another thing that you constantly did was you kept, you did the right thing. This is what we do in our school. You kept referring to, you know, the Ajahn's teaching. Or even another student who just taught. You're like, oh, just like they said, this is what it is. You kept doing that over and over and over again. We must do that in our teachings. We have to refer to ourselves. Because it gathers power when there's multiple teachers, it shows that there's a unity. Everyone's like what the Ajahn said, what the previous speaker just said, or in last week's teaching, we just keep bringing it together. So you got to have those things. You have to have a good structure. And you you also have to have a personal experience. Share with us what what this teaching has been the impact on your life. And you know the way that we share we say we just explain the situation of what happened, and then there's a lot of light in that. Don't overthink it.

0:57:45
And then if you have a teaching,

0:57:46
you better have an insight, a spiritual insight. And then every Shodan, I think,

0:57:51
every time that you teach, do a transmission.

0:57:53
Like if you're gonna do a teaching, do a transmission. There is a transmission for every teaching. If you're doing a teaching, do a transmission. I know it's like, I don't know if I should just do it. Do a transmission or if you see that it should be an empowerment or if you know it should be an initiation, do the mystical powers. Like start to work with that. That's good. My last point is the Buddha dojo is over, so there's no longer going to be any ST1s or ST2 guest teachers. You guys had enough of that. And Kali's last teaching, Kali ST1, was ridiculous. She was an idiot. See, she's like, oh that was so powerful for me. I'm like, you're a fucking idiot. This is what ego does, they convince themselves to do idiotic things and that's why they can't become enlightened. They can't listen to somebody else. But she was doing, you know, like Rama was like, here's something that you should do. This is your yoga. She was like, oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm not going to do it. I looked around, but I don't want to do it. And then eventually Rama had to tell her, you either do it or you're out. And she just didn't want to fricking do yoga. So she quit. And she thinks it's so noble. She's an idiot. I'm like, do you know what she would have learned if she actually took her enlightened teacher's advice, followed the teaching? She would have learned something amazing. Maybe she'd be enlightened by now, but she's a quitter. teaching you guys that that is spiritual is trouble to me. I'm like, oh, I would, if I was on that call, I'd be like, can I say something? I have a question. Are you a fucking idiot? That's what I would say. Because it's an idiot thing to do. Luckily, she got invited back in after that round of teaching was over. She didn't want to participate it, but Rama said you either do it or you leave, and she quit. I don't know, she's like, oh, it's the right thing for me. I'm like, yeah, you're an idiot. So her teaching you guys that was terrible. So no more ST1 and ST2 teachers. You guys teach, you guys teach much better. You guys are so clean. You guys are following such a strong structure. What you guys do so perfectly. Develop yourselves in that structure. You've seen enough of you know the ST1s And they're not nearly as good as you guys. You guys are much better trained. And you guys actually work in unity, not just as an individual. So you guys are doing a much better job at teaching. I don't think we need any more ST1s and ST2 teachers. This is my opinion. And another thing. So a couple of things came up about the structures that I've been talking about with showdowns. So I'm like, you know, you can teach anything as a showdown in my school. You can create your own dojo. Like I think someone's going to create, I think it was a Baltimore dojo where she has students over in Baltimore and she's going to create like a, I think even like a Baltimore Bodie Woods kind of thing. So it's like, cool, that's really cool. Great. Wow. Amazing. You know, and so it's like, you can, you can follow all the structures of a Shira and you can teach in a Shira, you can expand a Shira and that's really wonderful. Now, if you want It's different. One, I want to ask you about your ego. You're like, hey Buddha, that was a good teaching, but now I'm actually going to go and do my own thing. I'm going to make up, you know, I used to read some other stuff about monkeys. I'm going to add that into some of the Buddhas that I learned from you, and I'm going to go do my own thing. So you could do that. I would ask why. If Buddhist teachings worked for you, why would you change them? I would say, is there a major ego going on there? But if you want to, like if you have a... remember my second phase was like, hey, you know, if there's something you really are passionate about, like, you know, Buddhism for losing weight, right, you could teach that, or Buddhism for Chinese speakers, right? That's very cool, you know, you can, there's a billion people you can help, right? So that would be cool, if it's not an ego thing from you, if it's somewhere that you're really driven to teach, you can do that. Or if you want to go off the reservation and do whatever teachings you want to do, you mix whatever teachings you want together and you can do your teachings, it's your way. So those are the two places where you leave the structure of a Asherah. You're not in a shura. You're teaching your own thing, which is totally fine. But you can't have any resources from a shura. And you cannot have any students attend from a shura. You're doing your own thing. It's like you're getting a black belt in my karate school, and then you learned a little judo over here, and you go, well, I'm going to create my own dojo that's black, which is karate and judo. And then that's fine that you do that. It's just outside of the structure of the school. And I'm being, I'm being very liberal. If you, if I was like the Shotokan Karate Association, they wouldn't say you could do that at all. If you wanted to do your own thing, you're just fucking out, right? Cause they have a certain thing that they do. I'm actually, I've opened the structures up if you want to do those things. I would just say you need to really check your ego because, you know, as long as you're my student I'm going to give you a hard time. I'm going to be like, wait, why are you doing this? And you might waste a lot of energy trying to start something that doesn't start because it ain't easy to do. I mean, look at Shiva. He's been doing this for 30 years. He has like 6 students. Is that what you want to experience? No. Because if you actually follow the Asherah structures, you would have many more students. Like, you want to make it hard on yourself? Because you just want to express enlightenment your way, which is sounds like a lot of ego. I don't know. But once you start to do your stuff outside of Ashira, if it's not 100% Ashira, then it is no resources from Ashira, and no students from Ashira. Because when a student from my Sangha shows up in your class, they bring the light and power of the Sangha. And you might want that because that's what you've been experiencing here. But if you want to create your own system, your own enterprise, then do it yourself. And absolutely, you're not going to get, I mean, this is where I have to close things down. You can't have students from my school going and learning your weird ass shit that you haven't proven. You know what that is? It's like multi-level marketing.

1:06:38
You're like, oh my gosh,

1:06:39
I'm gonna be my own entrepreneur selling vitamins. Except for they're stupid overpriced vitamins that nobody wants to buy. It's not a great product at all. Except for what they tell you to do is go to friends and family. Because then you can, friends and family will be like, you're like, I'm so excited about my new business. And they're like, okay, I'll buy one. So you can't come to friends and family. And also if you ever do multi-level marketing, this is one of my rules in the Sanda, you can't sell it in the Sanda. Like if you think that product is so good, because you don't listen to me, go out and sell it. Sell it to hundreds and thousands of people. Once you've proved to me that you're a great salesman, and you make hundreds of thousands of dollars selling it, then I'll be all right, let me try those products. But generally, uh-uh.

1:07:40
You can't just rely on friends and family.

1:07:43
Can't get the power of the sangha if you're doing your own thing. You do your own thing, grow your own thing. See how easy it is to do that. If you can get 12 students, you're happy with that,

1:07:55
or whatever, I don't know.

1:07:56
But build what you can build. It's not easy to build the Sangha. You look at, you know, Dharma in New Mexico. He's like, he built a meditation center and he doesn't get a lot of people. And the people that come in are not the right people. And Lakshmi and Kali, they wanted to build a meditation center they failed and they're powerful people they like they have a lot of personal power and they they failed they outright failed at least Dharma did something but he doesn't have a lot of return on its investment and then Shiva you know just for 30 years he's been teaching doesn't have a lot of students so if you want to do your own structures, look at those really strong people and say, do I want to waste a lot of time? Maybe you just need to go and express yourself. I'm okay with that. But absolutely no one in my sangha is ever gonna go to your class, ever. Now, maybe you prove yourself, sell hundreds and thousands, let me see the product being successful.

1:09:25
Then I might be like,

1:09:26
oh, I really want my students to go. But you can't invite them and they can't show up. Because if they show up, then it's over. None of my students could go to your class unless you were teaching exactly Ashura. That's because this is our school. So I just want you guys to be clear on that. Okay. And then the other thing is, some people, some Shodans are like, well, yeah, I think I'm going to, like, you know, take a step down from Shodan and go to the free track and kind of do my own thing. I'm like, there's no, did you guys ever hear me say there's a free track for showdowns? No, I said, showdowns have to pay tuition, period. There's no free track. You can't step down to be a bow down. You can't step down to be free track. You're a showdown in this school. If at this point you don't understand or value what you've learned, all the amazing things you've been given. If you don't see that and don't understand that, and even all of your ideas come from the powers of the structure of the school. If you don't understand that, don't value it, then this is where you lose that thing called the last teaching of Rama. It's the loyalty, the Zen loyalty teaching. And you can lose that and you can quit. You don't have to be here if you don't want to be here. You can do anything that you want to do. But if you're here, you're going to be an impeccable shodan, period. And I will hold you accountable to that. And I will also give you more enlightened teachings that go higher. But if you don't think that there's anything here for you, be like, I got my black belt, I can kind of leave now. I'm going to go to Bali and hang out with that SD5 and we're going to find some demons. Yeah, I don't know, whatever you want to do. But no, if you don't value this, what you don't value, you'll lose. And you'll lose it by your own reconnaissance. But I'm showing you very clearly the structures that work. Okay. That's it. Thank you all so much. Thank you all so much.

1:11:50
Be well.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
