0:00:00
Hello everyone and welcome. So I just want to give you a little bit of an update on what I've been doing recently. So I'm working with the New York yogis and I'm working on some of the higher teachings and deeper aspects of the Kala chakra Come on in Indra Just pops up on my screen And things are going really well It's quite lovely here. So I've been really working on this yoga, and I've described it to you guys a number of times, but now I'm getting into it more, because I'm doing it many, many, many, many times here. And this yoga is very tremendous. It's a big yoga. And you might look at your yoga, and I wanted to ask you, what, how many dimensions are in your yoga, right? As a computer programmer, it's usually a few dimensions. As a business person, maybe a few more. As a leader, maybe a dozen or so. It's a dimension, you can go deep into dimensions, but different dimensions of your yoga and your work. So here I go into very deep dimensions, and I also have many dimensions. This yoga is like way out there. There's tens of thousands of dimensions, and there's also a depth that goes into them that's very deep. So this yoga that I'm working on is fascinating, wonderful. It's quite profound. It's the most profound, intense yoga that I've ever come across. And this is what I'm working on.

0:02:19
And it's really great.

0:02:20
Now, for me, it's a great challenge. It's very intense. There's a great demand. I'm working with these yogis who have been working on this for many years. They're very expert in it. And so for me, you know, just to keep up, it's a challenge. And it's fun. I enjoy it. So this is what I've been working on. And I've noticed that by going through this challenge, for me to be challenged in a spiritual practice where there's a higher demand, it's a big deal. And I noticed that by doing it, that I get stronger, that I learn more, that I get more capable. So I'm gaining in this yoga a greater capability in the Kala Chakra that I received and that I've given to my Shodhans, this is just crashing the surface. The Kala Chakra is big. And now that I'm doing the direct Kala Chakra yoga, I'm learning how big it is, and I'm becoming stronger, more stronger and more capable in that level of practice. So it's pretty fantastic and wonderful. And it's a challenge, but I enjoy the challenge. You know, that's what a great yogi does. When there's a challenge, it might be difficult. I mean, all challenges, they're difficult, they're painful, you know, there's some place that you got to get over above, you know, some wall that you got to break down. But when you do that, when you break that wall down and you get over that level, then everything becomes alive and magic. There's a liberation, a freedom. And in a really strong practice, it is in every moment. Every moment is a time of transcendence. Every moment is something that gets you higher. Okay, hold on a second. Sorry, I have to come back. So, um, so enlightenment goes on and on. Enlightenment is not a destination. You get there, you've done it, and that's it. It's never like that. Look at the teachings of the great teachers like Rama, Krishna. They were the ultimate enlightened people and yet they went through a whole bunch of things. They did great acts through their work. So enlightenment is not a place to get to and then to chill.

0:05:43
Enlightenment is a place to get to

0:05:45
and then to really focus, to do your enlightened work, to do your dharma. So this is a really important thing. Now, I'm growing in a capability of the Kala Chakra that I hadn't learned before, that I'm now starting to gain ability in. But I'd like to say that there is, that enlightenment is something. Enlightenment is something. This is why I gave you the last book to read, so that you understand that enlightenment is something. It's not something to just take lightly, or to take as a transient experience. Enlightenment is something. Something happens. And there's a structure of enlightenment. You know, there's different ways of describing that structure, but there's a structure of enlightenment. There's the beginning of enlightenment. There's the next step, the next step. Enlightenment grows. So for example, it's described in different ways. So in the Vedas, there's the Brahman. Brahman is the realization of Brahman is the first level of enlightenment which is a big deal and then there's the Paramaham which is the supreme Godhead personality of liberation, which has some name I forgot. So there's different levels, like in the great traditions, they describe them in different ways. You know, Buddha described enlightenment in four ways. The stream winner is one liberation. The once-returner is another liberation. The non-returner is a higher liberation. And finally, enlightenment, the arhant, or the highest level, the perfected saint. So there's different ways, but it's important. It happens very often in many different systems that they describe progress, they describe higher levels of attention, they describe even enlightenment in different levels. So in our school we're very much structuralists, but the thing is we have a way of talking about enlightenment too. A structure. So one in our structure of enlightenment there's moksha. And moksha is liberation. It is a moment even beyond samadhi. You can have many samadhis which are really high states of mind but moksha is that place where in that high state of mind it's initiated by savakota samadhi but in that state of mind you let go of the self and it never comes back. And so what I would call that is a pinprick in the great wall of self. There's a pinprick through it where you can see through the self completely. And so when you've had moksha, when you are mindful and balanced and impeccable, you can always bring yourself to that point where you look through that pinprick and you see eternity. Now, someone who just has a samadhi, great, there's no wall there for a while, then there's a wall. But in enlightenment, moksha is where there's always a hole in the wall. You can always look there when you want to, when you get in proper condition and look. That's the first stage. Then there's primary enlightenment. Primary enlightenment is where it's initiated by Nirvikalpa Samadhi. And it is where you have a window right in front of you of enlightenment. Not a pinprick where you have to like kind of get yourself in the right place but it's just primary enlightenment is enlightenment is everything that you do. It's just the most natural thing. You have to really look off on the sides to get out of the view of enlightenment. And that's primary enlightenment. And then there's this wonderful next step. It's called Sambhoga. And Sambhoga is called ecstasy. It is the ecstasy and joy of being. And when you get to that level, it's what we would say a thousand times higher than primary liberation. And in that experience, you see so many more opportunities. What would I call it? It's the perfect view. It's like if there was a window, and then you just throw the window down and you have a direct view. There's nothing in between you and the view of everything.

0:12:10
Sambuddha.

0:12:11
And the funny thing is, when you experience moksha, you say, wow, that's enlightenment. That's tremendous. It's the most wonderful thing. And then when you go into primary, you say, oh wait, that enlightenment was nothing. This is the real deal. And then you go into a samba, this is the real deal. You go higher and higher and higher. Bigger, bigger, bigger. never stops, it never ends. It goes on and on. And there are many dimensions horizontally in this vertical description. So you just keep working. You just keep focusing on the light. You keep doing the dharma. You get to a higher enlightenment. So it goes higher and higher and higher. And then after Sambhoga, then there's this thing, I used to call it Bodhisattva, the Bodhisattva. And the reason I called it the Bodhisattva is because when I reached that level, it was through a great experience of compassion. I was teaching the way of the Bodhisattva and I had a very strong experience and what brought me to that level was compassion. But it's not, it doesn't necessarily come from compassion. So rather than calling it the third level of enlightenment, the Bodhisattva, Dharmata. Dharmata is the extant realization of truth. Unfiltered, direct awareness of truth. And that is the third, you know, level, well fourth level, fourth level of ecstasy. And then there's what we Complete enlightenment, full enlightenment. Full enlightenment is where you have, yes, a physical body, a way of talking, a way of interacting with the physical world, but just the minimum ability to be incarnate. And yes, you can trip and fall, you can be duped, you know, all sorts of things in the transient, but the transient is a small aspect of the self and the spirit is a strong aspect of the self. And when you are 100% spiritually connected with light, enlightenment, and you are partially in this world, but it's a smaller part of you, even though you know you're here so it's a hundred percent to now, but you're also a hundred percent connected in spirit. That's what we call full enlightenment. So there's an aspect of the being, just enough to have an incarnate form, but that being also is 100% very connected to enlightenment, to spirit. And this is what we what we experience at this level. It's a real thing. It's called full enlightenment. Now with full enlightenment the New York yogis say that there's very few students they they recognize that there's like around 48 students of Ram Rinpoche who are liberated but they say there's only a there were only a few that became fully enlightened. So they said, me, and that's when they became interested in me. Them before me, second of them, and they were very, very strong for maybe, I don't know, like eight years before me. And then they said, me. They also pointed out Sahaja and Sahaja is no longer with us but they pointed her out they were very interested in her and they said no no she's she was she was one of the fully enlightened ones so the full enlightenment is it is a thing I thing. I remember it happened when it happened to me. It was July 7th, 2020. Before, you know, the coronavirus kicked in and I was like, I don't know what happened. I was like okay this brought me to a new level. So it happens. This is what we do. We work in the dharma and we get higher and even higher than you can I've had some students say, whoa, that was really cool. I'm really happy. And then the next teaching, they're like, I can't believe it keeps going higher. And I'm like, oh yeah, it goes higher. If you practice the Dharma, if you practice and follow in the spirit, it goes higher and higher and higher. So then we get to a couple things. There's the highest levels of liberation but then after fully enlightenment then the New York yogis talk about that there's many, many, many, many, many levels. And what we call them is caretaker personalities of enlightenment. And they say that they are the enlightened occultists. That means they're very technical, liberation, and very technical, and I have to say that I am the enlightened master. And they say that that is a caretaker that opens you up not just to a way of acting, a caretaker after the level of full enlightenment. It is a caretaker that opens up many powers and possibilities. So I'm working with them, learning what their powers and capabilities are. They have no interest in teaching, so they're not interested in what I can teach them to teach. So I'm learning from them. But they say that I have a level of teaching that no other teacher in our sangha has reached. The level of the enlightened master. And I probably agree with them. Because I've seen the other teachers. Which is fine. of a structured, empowered success.

0:20:53
It's just not something that's going to actually work

0:20:56
for most people, maybe one or two, but in this school, for many. So I listened to that. Now, when I come after this understanding, I come to a place of reflection. So I've been working really hard, been teaching for over 20 years. I've had a lot of work to do. It's not been easy for me. I've been fully and completely committed to my And now I end up in this moment. And what do I see? I see that in this moment where I'm working, that there's possibility. I've been working really hard. There's been a lot of demand. Up until the last Equinox, I was every day working, working, working, working, working with students. Totally focused. And then I go on the Equinox teachings starting March 18th. And that was powerful and big and a lot of work for me. A lot of me helping and putting my energy forward. And then I go to Europe and I teach, teach, teach. Back to back to back to back. So I just teach, teach, teach. It's a lot of work. And then I come here in New York and the day that I get here I meet with the you know from Europe they meet with the New York Yogi's the New York Yogi's sounds like a baseball team. They call, they just call themselves Sangha. And like, you know, there's a bigger Sangha. They don't have many names. I just call them the New York yogis. So they come together and they do this amazing thing where dharma comes out in beautiful powerful ways and they're amazing. So when we're working together and there's all these aspects of dharma. The dharma can wash away in this light.

0:24:05
It's true. So, when we're working, we can dissolve self.

0:24:15
This is a higher way. This is what I'm working on with them. Now, I have put my heart into it. And everything's been difficult. There's been a lot of work. It's been days after days teaching in Europe. And before I came to Europe, there's been a lot of work. And everything is wonderful. I love it. Reflecting on this moment, I have to say that my heart is in this 100%. I love it completely. I love my students. I love everything that we have to go through. All the challenges, all the challenges. If I was sitting there with Milorapa, building his, like, tower, I'd help him, and I'd be 100% on his side. Whatever the work is, I don't care what the work is. It's hard, it's difficult. Yes, it's challenging, but it's the best. It's what we need to do. So don't give up because it's hard.

0:25:52
Think about Milarepa.

0:25:53
And think about the great yogis in the school who have succeeded.

0:25:55
Did they quit because it was hard?

0:25:58
No.

0:25:59
They became strong because it's hard. Myself included and the great yogis in our school. So don't quit. So you have to say, you have to have a reflection. You have to say, hmm, look at the great yogis in our school who succeeded. Was there heart in it? And also me, I'm not giving up. So you have to have your heart in it, like if you're a black belt in a dojo, or even a green belt in a dojo, and your heart's not in it, you won't be trying very hard. It will be obvious to your sensei that you've given up. So if your heart's not in it, what are you doing? Right? It's like usually in a dojo, you realize when someone tries to punch you that you have to wake up and do something. But if your heart's not in it, you say, not interested. But I wanna ask you that. You know, I want to tell you from my experience, hardship, difficulty, all this work, I do

0:28:12
a lot of work.

0:28:13
I've got my, you know, six hour morning meditation, four hours yoga, two hours of working on the advanced Kalachakra that I can be trained to help you, I work really hard.

0:28:28
That's just my main practices.

0:28:32
So I work really hard. But are you into it?

0:28:37
Like, what's your work?

0:28:39
What's your work?

0:28:41
Are you strong? Are you focused? Are you developing? You have to work.

0:28:52
This is yoga.

0:28:53
So, work hard. Develop yourself.

0:28:57
If you're not making progress in my school,

0:29:00
it's like you're in my dojo. You got a black belt and you think you're so cool. And I start to teach you, here's the need-on techniques. You get your green belt and you're happy with that. Here's the next level up. I'm giving you the techniques. This is where in the advanced teachings, the first advanced teaching that Rama gave us, he said, when you become enlightened, your enlightened teacher gives you a really hard time.

0:29:38
I was like, what?

0:29:40
Why? Because you're enlightened. Why would you get a hard time? Because the enlightened teacher is a higher degree black belt. And just like a fifth degree black belt can tell a first degree black belt, that's wrong, here's how you do it right. A higher teacher can give you a higher view. It's just kind of obvious. So I want you to be working towards a higher degree. And I'll give you a hard time about it unless you're doing it right. And I'm gonna get to the sangha org.

0:30:27
So the Sangha org.

0:30:30
This is our Sangha. Now, I've given it upon you to create a Sangha structure and to administrate it, to support it, to organize it, to make it come forth. So it's not something that is easy. To me, it's the easiest thing in the world, but I'm offering it to you. And I'm saying, you do your best. You make it happen. You support a really powerful school.

0:31:13
Bring your best so that you can come up

0:31:15
to that level of our standard. And make it work. And showdowns. Is it that hard? One, you're smart people. You're powerful people. The one thing that stops you from making our sangha work successful is self. I don't care if you're liberated. If you're liberated, come in and like show the way. Make it big. Come in with your liberation and show the way. That would be selfless, enlightened, and powerful. But if you don't have that in you, then at least help a little bit or take it on as your radical liberation. Take it on. But seriously, as a group of showdowns, fully empowered people, if you say, I'm not going to help, ask yourself, is it self? And if you find self, then you find your own limit, your own limit, limitation. It's not liberation, it's limitation.

0:32:43
And

0:32:43
And come on, why can't you do it? What's wrong with you? I've gotten a couple of reports about the song.org. It is slow and weak and ununified. Those three things, that's what I see. Now, this could have been done in two weeks if you had people with the will and the way. Selflessness and impactability could have been done in two weeks. This whole thing that's taken so many months. What the? What are you doing? And I've given it to you because I could always take it over and I can just do it the way you know I can make it a structure from me to you. But I'm giving you an option to stand up. You don't want to stand up, you don't want to work. If you can't stand up and you can't work together, are you kidding me?

0:33:52
Show it on us.

0:33:53
Figure it out. If you can't figure it out, I will take it over and I'll make friends on the way. You know what I do, I can do that. I don't wanna do that. I want you to be the custodians of the third jewel.

0:34:15
This is what I did for you.

0:34:16
The third jewel didn't exist until I created it for my Sangha. And for me to be the custodian, the holder and creator of the third jewel was extremely empowering for me. And if you do that, it is a great, powerful thing. If you have negligence, if you don't want to step up because you think you're too cool and it's too much a pain in the ass, then you're weak. You know what I did? I did it and it wasn't weak and it was hard and I did it. So if you're a great, step up. If you're weak, then step up. But showdoms, you should be able to put this together. You should be able to figure this out. This is not even a koan. This is basic. And the reason, the fact that it's taken months to get to where you're at and be not done is a failure. You're weak. You're not focusing on it. Too many enlightened opinions or whatever. I don't care. If you're enlightened and your sangha is in disarray, you have trouble. You're like, I'm strong in the dharma. I'm good with my guru. And my sangha is a mess. And if you let that happen, You need to wake up.

0:36:04
Why not?

0:36:05
So I have to say, is your heart in this? I'm telling you right now, you know, I've gone through a lot of work, a lot of demand, more demand than I've ever been in. My recognition, my realization is my heart is in it. My heart is in the situation. My heart is in this organization. And it's really strong. So I wanna ask, is your heart in this? Are you, you know, like, you guys are the experienced photons and the advanced chauvons, students

0:37:00
of this school.

0:37:01
Is your heart in it? Did you go through this experience and go, oh, it's hard, I'm tired? What do you say, no, I'm working on it? You know, cause there's so many people who in martial arts get to a certain point, you know, green belt, brown belt. I get the idea of what it is, but it's hard work and it's not what I imagined, so I quit. You never even get your black belt. Or showdowns in our homes. You got your black belt. Lots of people get a black belt. In America, lots of people get a black belt. And the moment they get a black belt, they quit. They just quit the school. They go, I've gotten a black belt, proved my point. And a black belt means nothing, nothing if you do that. It means nothing. It proved an ego point. And what happens after you get your black belt is that all your personal power goes down. All of your personal power goes down. You're not a good fighter. Can't handle yourself in a street fight. You just got a black belt. You did a little dance, did some work, right? You know, black belt is the beginning. You know, enlightenment is the beginning. It's the beginning of the path to enlightenment. But if you get a black belt and you quit your dojo, which a lot of my black belts know, that's what they've seen in dojos. Americans get a black belt and then they quit. But if you get your moksha or your primary enlightenment, you get enlightened and you quit, guess what happens? Same thing, you go back down into the muck. You don't go up, you go back down. In moksha and primary enlightenment especially, you can go down into a lot of trouble. It's just like getting a black belt and quitting. Then if you think you get in a street fight and you think your side thrust kick is going to work, it doesn't work so good. You know? It doesn't. So I want you to consider for your school, you know, you're a Blackville, don't quit. Be strong. And do your best. I remember there was a teacher, he was actually, I think, the first one who was enlightened after getting the advanced enlightened teachings from our teacher. His name was Ananda, an older student in Ram Ram Pesce's lineage. And he was talking about a time where everyone was just a regular student. And then Ram Ram Pesce said, we're going to create this business. Everything's going to be business. This is back in the 80s. Everything's going to turn into business. And you have to apply to be in this business. And he was a great technologist and it was a technology business and he gave forth his best resume and his best interview and he said also no matter No matter what, he's like, I will do what you need me to do. He's like, if you need me to be a janitor and to clean the office and to take out the trash and clean the toilets, he said, I will do that. He was one of, you know, like more qualified people, but he had this thing where he was like, I just want to be a part of this, whatever it is. That is selflessness. It's not that you have too much to do. It's if your heart's in it. You can have tons to do, a universe to do, but if your heart is in your yoga, your heart is in your sangha, you'll do whatever it takes to do. Now, I'm going to talk to primarily showdowns, and I want to say, don't do too much. So, showdowns, we're trying to come to a balance, you know, it's like all of a sudden you all got your like superhero powers, and like, well here's how it has to work, we can't just all be going out, you know, shooting Spider-Man webs and flying and plasma or whatever, they're all over the place, right? There has to be a little bit of structure. So I'm going to talk to you guys about how to have balance. So, one, I'm going to say don't do too much. Don't do too much. And that means if you're going to give a teaching, if you're on the schedule, you're going to do a power trip, you're meeting with your, you know, your dojo, then I would say, plan your dive and dive your plan. Say, here's thing that I can do to help. feel it through in the first attention and the second attention, and I will perform that. Don't do more. Don't try to do everything in every teaching. Don't try to stand out and do the most amazing teaching. See where people are at and try to help them at that place. So don't try to do everything. Like, really take a moment and feel what people need and work only from there.

0:43:17
Structure it.

0:43:18
Work from there. Don't do more. Okay. It's like Bodhans. Bodhans are teaching intro and beginning and yoga. Like if you're teaching that, don't teach more. You're in an intro class. Don't start talking about like advanced or intermediate subjects. If you're in an intro class, you're teaching someone about meditation, they're so happy. And then you go, and you're going to become a computer programmer and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. They're like, it's too much. That person who could learn and become a great yogi, if you just talk, talk to them about all the work of a computer programmer, they're not ready for it. It will mess them up. Right? So don't do too much. Teach, if you're teaching a white belt class, teach a white belt class. I teach amazing white belt classes as a high degree martial artist, many degree black belts, but I teach a great white belt class. And then they get higher. So if you're good you don't tell them more, you get them excited at that level to get higher. So Shonans, when you're doing Sangha level teachings, don't do too much. Be very focused. Structure, work into that structure, don't do more.

0:44:50
It's very important.

0:44:51
So, showdowns. Also, don't do individual teachings and transmissions. This has become a big problem. So, we have a Sangha structure, a calendar, we need to focus all of our attention on people aligning with the calendar of teachings. And if someone comes to you and you have a whole idea of a whole brand new teaching, totally different to the calendar, just don't do it. Support them to understand the main teachings of the Sangha. Don't just make up something new. It draws them off. It doesn't help. I know you think it's the coolest thing in the world, which is fine for you. outside of if you're a transmission teacher of the Sanda. Don't be like, oh I just figured out transmission I was just going to give you. It's too much. What if they go to you and then someone else the next day and someone else the next day and everyone sees the Dharma and everyone's giving transmissions. It's too much. There is a focused plan, a structure in the school. Follow the structure. All you should do is if someone comes to you and you see a dharma, support the last teaching that you saw online for the dharma. Don't do a transmission, don't do it. If you want to do it, ask me first and I'll say, yeah, don't do it. Because if you go to a Bodhan, the Bodhan's very curious, the Bodhan's having a good experience, and then you go, wow, okay, cool, I'm going to the advanced teachings. If you do that, like I told you, you are fucking over that boat on. You're messing it up for them. Because I guarantee this, it doesn't work for them. If I don't say they're ready, they ain't ready. And if you give them that teaching, it won't, one, it won't work. And two, when they are ready, it won't work because you gave them a concept of what it is. So you really messed them up because you were excited because in you know like in your mind enlightenment's everywhere and shouldn't they have it? I see the Buddha nature in them. They're not there yet. They need a lot of yoga usually to get to that level. You have to burn, as Martha said, you have to burn off a lot of karma. So they didn't burn off enough. I know that you see the enlightenment in them, the Buddha nature in them, and you see them connecting to it a little bit, you know, but then you tell them this and guess what happens in that moment?

0:48:28
Yeah, cool.

0:48:28
I see it and then look at look at a bigger picture of their mind and then they go into a whole bunch of garbage and you've just given them a concept of the advanced teachings and then when they hear from me or from you at the time when they're ready, they can't use it. It's not an aid because it's an idea. They've already figured out that idea. They brought that idea into the self. I didn't give the advanced teachings for like 20 years. The most powerful things I've ever taught were at the advanced teachings. I knew them ever since I started teaching and I never said them to any of my students. I never opened those dimensions because I knew that this is the most powerful thing and it needs to be taught at the right time. You can't just say, oh, I see the enlightenment of all my students, but I have to know that they're ready at the highest level so that when they get that teaching and that it works. So a lot of you have done ridiculous things like giving transmission teachings to beginning students or Bodons. Like, transmission teachings that are too crazy or advanced teachings to Bodons that they're not even ready for. Don't make that mistake. Don't do too much. Okay, um, okay, I want to, I want to get on trying to work through this. So, I want to talk about the assignment. So, I gave the Zen of Work assignment, and then I got, you know, I got some assignments. I saw so many missing, and so a week before I said, okay, I'm gonna give you an extra week. I don't know why because I gave you a month and this is something that would take me maybe 30 minutes to do. If I sat down and focused for 30 minutes, I could do this assignment. Maybe for you an hour. Okay, I don't know. But a month went by. I gave you an extra week, calling it to your attention. And guess what? Kind of after that week, there were like two. And so there's a long list of you who didn't do the assignment.

0:51:02
Showdowns.

0:51:03
You know, actually some Bodons did the assignment and their assignments are pretty good. I've looked at them, but showdowns. What is your problem? You think I'm kidding around? If I give an assignment and I rarely give an assignment, if I give an assignment, you gotta do it. I mean, it just shows me a complete disregard of understanding for what a school is. In a school, if you get assignment, you do it, right? And so many showdowns didn't do the assignment. You are off. There's something wrong with you. You need to wake up. And that's why I'm here. I'm here to tell you, wake up. Reflect on why you're here. Have you missed the plot? Do you forget what this school is about? Do you think that this is a school of opinion, a school of doing whatever you wanna do? No, this is a school. And in school, you do the assignments. In school, you follow the structures. And if you don't do that, then you're out of the school. So I'm gonna give you one week from today, from right now, whatever time it is, oh six, to complete this assignment. You must do it. If you don't do it, you're no longer in my school. You can go elsewhere. You can go hang out with Turia or Shiva. I mean, they're in our lineage. They're the discount schools. They don't cost as much, right? $200 a month. Not so bad. And you can be in their school. If you like their school, that's great. You don't need to be in my school. You can be in whatever experience. I mean, you can look at the experience of their students and say, I want, if you look at the experience of their students and say, I want that, then please go there. Do what they do. I mean, they're cool. And if you like that, go for it.

0:53:41
But you can't be here.

0:53:42
Here there's a higher demand, and there's also a higher level of success in yoga and in enlightenment. Those are the two things that you can say are for real here. But you can go there and do whatever you want to do and mazel tov and hope hopefully it all works out but you can't be here so if you're a showdown complete your assignment by this time next week otherwise I will be sending you away I'll be like, oh, you don't want to be here. You can't do it. It's not that hard. It's not that difficult. It's not the most difficult thing in the universe. It's a simple thing. It comes out of your experience. It's an honest thing about structuring an idea and using your experience to back that idea up. Very simple structure. Something that would take me 30 minutes to do. Maybe it'll take you an hour, hour and a half. You couldn't do it in a month, but do it. Now, do you think that I'm just telling you to do this for just doing work? No, I'm doing this as a teaching. This is a teaching for showdowns to bring you into a structure of awareness of development, but also to show you higher aspects of your past lives. To show you in a past life you are not only a person who practiced dharma but along with this structure of teaching you are a person who taught the dharma in a level of mastery. So when we do the basic teachings of past life seeing it's always you know in the beginning it's like whoa I was a monk I was a yogi I was you know a yogini I was a nun I was a teacher you see it at certain levels that get you higher but shurams this teaching is a teaching that shows you really your highest pathwise. And there's a lot to it. There's a lot I can say, a lot I can show you. But if you don't do this teaching, and if you don't know it well, if you don't really reflect on your experience of what job yoga is, what yoga is, and to be able to come across authentically, have some insight, draw upon your experiences. I mean, that's all you have to do. It is a confession of a yogi. Autobiography of a yogi, confession of a job yogi. What is your experience? So this is something that you have to do. Now we get to the best subject, which is tuition. So to be in my school, you have to do tuition. It's a big deal. You go from free to $700 a month. It's a big deal. It's a big commitment. And that means that you have your stuff together. You're strong. You have a very strong career. You've learned in this school enough to develop that career or that the spiritual teachings are so powerful in this school that you are okay paying them.

0:57:41
Showdowns, you've been here for many years

0:57:43
and the experience of what you've learned and the value of it is self-evident. However, the same way I was given a list of people who didn't do the assignment, I was given a list of people who were behind in tuition.

0:58:10
And guess what?

0:58:10
Showdowns and Bodowns. Bodowns are not behind in tuition. Guess who's behind in tuition? Showdowns. Are you kidding me?

0:58:19
Showdowns.

0:58:20
So Bodowns and Showdowns, you're the experienced and advanced and leaders in the school. You're so strong, Bodons and Shodons, that you are the example of the way. But the Bodons are doing better than the Shodons. They're more consistent, they're more selfless, they're more giving. Shodons, you're kind of losing it. But I just want to talk about tuition. Tuition is an offering. It's just an offering. It's an offering to the Dharma, to your teacher, to your school, to support the Dharma of your school. It is also to me a demonstration that you're interested enough to receive this opportunity, this opportunity that has given you so much. You might complain about what it's given you because you're stuck only making $100 an hour, or I don't know where you're stuck, but you're way better off. Showdance, you're way better off than when you met me. And if you want to forget about that and just be caught up in weird stuff, there's the door. You can go somewhere else with all that. But here, no, you have to pay tuition. No problem with Bodons. Showdowns, I've got, I didn't, you know, luckily this time, I just got a list. I didn't read the list, I just saw a long list of people who are behind, behind in tuition. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. You don't do that. If you get a black belt in a karate dojo, do you all of a sudden get to stay in the karate dojo for free? No. You actually, usually when you become a karate black belt, you probably actually give more. And if you're a Shodan and an Arhant, you keep giving. And if you don't give, you're not here. Then you have the wrong idea. It is a gesture of support. It strengthens the virtue of the teacher-student relationship, and it strengthens the virtue of supporting a sangha. And if you don't have that in you, then you lost it, buddy. Too much self.

1:01:08
Self.

1:01:09
So, So what you guys have is tuition, it's not that big of a deal, but you've got to do it. Otherwise, go to the discount teachers, go to Turia, go to Sheba, $200 a month

1:01:28
and look at their sanghas.

1:01:29
If you want to be that, then great. You don't need more than that. But no, this is not okay. This is the time where wake up. Showdowns are behind intuitions. Bodowns aren't. No, this isn't gonna happen, okay? Wake up, this is the time to fix this. It doesn't happen this way. Yeah, so let's look at Milarepa, right? So Milarepa first found this enlightened teacher and his guru was Marpa. And the enlightened teacher said, yeah, you're too much of a mess for me. I gotta send you on to Marpa. And then when he shows him to Marpa, he goes for some special thing. And he's an enlightened teacher, student of Marpa. He goes up and then Marpa goes, whoa you brought me this gift, this gift, and this gift but you didn't even bring me a goat. He's like give me a freaking goat and then this enlightened teacher, teacher of his own school, enlightened from Marpa respects his teacher and he says I need to give an offering and now he's up in the Himalayas and there's no goats up there so he has to go all the way back down to where the lower Himalayas, where he's from, get a goat and take the goat. And then when he gets to the high mountain passes, he has to carry the goat on his back and carry that goat up to his teacher, Marpa. Then Marpa just goes, and then goes on to the next thing. But why did Marpa demand a goat? I mean a goat is useful for the sangha, but he demanded it because it's dharma. Same thing with my teacher. My teacher, he charged us $1,200 a month back in like the late 90s, you know, and somehow we had enough money to pay for it. It's not that big of a deal, 1200. I charge you guys much less, but, and that was us as intermediate students, as Bodoms, going into showdown. So, you know, you tell me it's too much money, get out of here. I've done more when that money was valued higher. So, no, like you have to do the right thing. The teacher gives you a hard time. My teacher was a multi-millionaire asking us to pay $1,200 a month. It's not because he actually needed the money. I mean, yeah, sure, the money's good and it helps for things, but it's not about the money. It's about a certain level of support. It's a dharma. This is why Marga said, hey, you know, give me some money, give me a guilt. My teacher said, give me a certain level of money, because it engages you. It shows you if you're that interested, if you're that selfless, it's selfless giving. It's a support for your school. It's an intention of giving. It's like Mahakasyapa, a student of the Buddha. He went to this old wretched woman and she was angry, fucking nasty, disgusting and all this stuff. She had like these boils on her face and he said to her, let me help you and here's how you're gonna help me. I want you to give me your bowl of gruel, your food, which is garbage food. Offer it to me so I can help you. He was fully enlightened. And she's like, what, you wanna eat this? And he's all, yes, please give it to me, offer it to me. And then as she was offering it, like one of her boils squeezed a little bit and a little pus from a boil on her face ran into this gruel and she was like oh that's terrible but he accepted it and he ate it completely. He did that because he accepted whatever she had to give for that he was able to help her transcend her karma. It's selfless giving to enlightenment. Now I want to say this, you know, $1,200 to my teacher who was a multi-millionaire, it still helps. He uses it for some positive things. Let's see, Marpa needed a goat? Yeah, sure, why not? I mean you can do good things with a goat. He had a big sangha. Maybe they could use a goat. Okay. And me too. I can use a goat and I can use money. And it's something that's helpful. These are constructive positive things. It's not like I actually need it more than anything in the universe, but it's helpful to support the dharma. So, it supports me. So when you give tuition, it supports me. I'm a full-time 100% yogi in the school, and it supports me. And I'm the leader, so it supports me. But it also supports everything that I do to further the dharma of this school. So, for example, if you didn't pay tuition, there is absolutely no way we would have a sangha in Hungary. Now we have 100 students in Hungary, we have got like, I don't know, 60 students who've got the advanced teachings, and they are rapidly going towards enlightenment. They have so much heart, they're working on it so much. And there's gonna be many enlightened students in Hungary because you pay tuition so I can be supported to practice and teach and go there. It's a big enterprise for me to be able to go there. That supports the dharma of the school. There's so many things and I teach all around Europe and it offers this. It offered me the ability, I put 15% of all tuitions saved throughout the years. 15% of it went into Ananda Loa. So that's what I can do to help Ananda Loa. Another 60% of all tuitions go into supporting and investing in yoga. When your yoga gets to a certain place of provability to me, I invest in it. So there's a lot going into it. Then there's 25% that supports me, supports my travel. I'm not just doing this to wind my pockets, right? All the money of tuition goes into the church and everything that I spend is a church expense. And it's something to always help the sangha. So it's not something that is just making Sambara wealthy. You know, also in my will, you know, I have, when I had business, I had a lot of personal accounts and in my will, and they're just accruing interest, and in my will, when I die, it all goes into the church. So, all the money that you give in tuition goes into the church, and all of my money that I ever made from, you know, my businesses, that's accruing interest, it will go into the church. So I'm focused on the church, Vajranandacharya, this organization succeeding. It's not just about just giving me money so that I can just do whatever I want, right? So the big picture here is that tuition supports the dharma of this school. And tuition supports the dharma of the school. And if you don't want to pay tuition, join another school. There's a lot of things you can watch on the internet for free. You can go on YouTube and watch lots of things for free. You don't have to be a part of a school. You don't need a teacher. You don't need to get to another level, right? You can just do whatever you want. You can go and if you like our our lineage you can study with Turia, Shiva, Adinikala. You can do whatever you want. But if you want to be a part of this school, which has really strong yoga success, really strong enlightenment success, and a long way to go, a higher way up, then you have to do it right. You know? You have to do it right. It's important. This is the way of things. Okay, um, all right, gotta move on. So, the reason that I came to New York is because, first and foremost, the New York Yogi's, which sounds like a baseball team, the New York Yogi's against the Yankees! Okay, anyway, the New York yogis, they've been telling me for a long time that I am getting ill by teaching a certain way. And there's a certain way, it's a very powerful way to teach, which I learned, I was empowered and I also empowered my students, the Shodans, with. And it's called the Mystical Teacher-Student Relationship. And this is a very powerful mystic siddha of how to teach. And what it is, and I've done this with you guys all along, I open my aura to you so that you're always in my aura in a mystical dimension where I am teaching through that dimension. It was one of the most powerful teachings that my teacher offered us. It's 24-7 enlightenment connection through a mystical means which is naval chakra it's a very powerful and helpful set of power and the New York Yogi's were always saying don't do it it's not good you shouldn't do it it's bad you know your teacher died young because of it and and and this thing this connection it's trouble. It creates all sorts of toxicity in your subtle physical body and your physical body. So they said, don't do it. They've been telling me that for a while. And I'm like, yeah, but if our teacher didn't do it for us, then we probably wouldn't be enlightened. And they say, yeah, that's kind of true. And I said, so therefore I won't give up. And then eventually they were like, well, there's another way. And they've been talking to me about this other way. So first of all, this Siddha of the mystical teacher-student relationship is a mystical connection between a teacher or student, it's 24-7, and it never ends, unless the student could quit. If the student quits, they lose it. Or if it's proper, you can kick a student out if it's the Dharma. But I have kicked no students out in, I don't know if I've ever kicked a student out. So it's possible if someone does something really horrible I can kick them out and then then I could let go of this but I can't just go oh this is too much it's painful it's a difficult I'm just gonna give up on it. I just quit. You can't quit on it. If you quit on it it is adharma. If you start it you can't finish it. Even after death of the student or you, it doesn't end. It goes on. It's a massive obligation. I don't recommend it for my students. Just as my teacher told me, I don't recommend it. At first, it might seem like a good idea, but then it's like owning a parrot. It's like, oh, I got a parrot. It's really cute. Yeah, parrots live like 65 years. You're like, oh, I got a parrot. It's a cute little pet. Then after like 10, 12 years, you're like, oh my God, I got a parrot. This thing is not stopping. this teacher-student relationship, this SIDA, it's powerful and very helpful. It helps me. But it shortens your life. It creates a lot of toxicity. So lots of people who use this SIDA, it's not good for you. Definitely not good for me. So these guys were telling me they're like whoa they're like you know look at what happened to Sahaja girl that can happen to you like that so while I've been here been learning from them and I have to say that I definitely awakened to a much higher way of the Kala Chakra which is our kind of universe of enlightenment. But it's open from just a couple dimensions of enlightenment to an actuality of dozens of levels of enlightenment and also a vision of thousands of levels of enlightenment. So what I've come up to a very powerful thing, a very powerful thing. It's very strong in being healthy for me, and it's very strong in bringing my students to a higher level of enlightenment and a deeper level of enlightenment. And this is transcending mysticism and the powers of mysticism, which are very very very effective but in having a strong awareness of the Kala Chakra there are more powerful capable higher dimensions of enlightenment. So in this condition I'm able to move from a level of, let's say, the navel chakra to a level of the third eye and the crown chakra for my students. And this, for me, is transcending mysticism, transcending a level of power and connection to a level of wisdom and enlightenment. So our experience now is going to a higher level of enlightenment. My teachings for my students are not just mysticism, as I'm very strong, very strong at being a mystic teacher. But now we're moving to a level that is, I can support all levels, everything that's been, but I'm supporting a focus on wisdom and enlightenment. Everything is a strong structure, and it's all being guided from a higher place because I'm elevating to a higher place. I'm elevated to a higher place already, and I'm getting situated and trained and more aware in this higher advanced level of the College Hopper teachings. And this is where we're going to come from from now on. So this is a very powerful moment. In this moment, there was a very powerful teaching, mystical teaching, called the teacher-student relationship that I have been doing forever. And I wouldn't give up this because this is one of the primary teachings that my teacher gave that helped me become enlightened and also the New York yogis become enlightened. But there's a higher way. It's not to give it up, it's to transcend it. And I have transcended it and I want to give you that experience of transcendence. I want you to like feel this change, this shift from me being connected to you in the in the navel, in the mystical dimensions, in that subtle physical awareness and I want you to feel the higher dimensions especially the crown which is a higher levels of the Kala Chakra and I want you to feel this shift in these dimensions because this is where I'm coming from now. Letting go of the subtle physical and letting go of the navel empowerment. Something that's toxic, something that really shortens your life and I'm coming from a much higher chakra, really the third eye and the crown chakra, wisdom and enlightenment. So I would like to sit with you and we're gonna sit for one song. I'd like you just to close your eyes and we're just gonna sit together. Um, self-focus on the third eye. All right, let's begin. Let's begin. so

1:21:19
so so It's a little bit different It's a little bit different It's a little bit different It's a little bit different It's a little bit different It's a little bit different It's a little bit different It's a little bit different It's a little bit different It's a little bit different It's a little bit different It's a little bit different It's a little bit different It's a little bit different so All right.

1:25:15
Wonderful.

1:25:17
So, Shodans. One, Shodans. Fix the Sangha org by the solstice.

1:25:28
Period.

1:25:29
Figure it out. Stop being crazy. Stop being so into yourself. You're smart. Figure it out. Is it that hard? I can't believe it's not done by now. It just shows me that there's a lot of people totally in their head and not trying to figure out our organization. That's a lack of selflessness.

1:25:54
So figure that out.

1:25:55
Two, showdowns. I'm gonna start getting reports. I want you to, okay, tuitions are due the 15th of each month. That's it, on or before the 15th. I'm gonna start getting reports of who doesn't pay on time. And then if you don't pay, we're gonna start talking about the exit. And exit signs are definitely not popular anymore. You know, it's always the way out. not popular anymore, you know? It's always the way out. Okay, so let's bring it together, you guys. You know, I'm trying to show you a new way to wake up showdowns, especially. Let's move forward. Let's move forward.

1:26:42
Okay, thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
