0:00:00
Hi everybody. Happy Equinox. I know in Hawaii it's like, oh dark 30. So thank you guys for waking up to this. This is really nice. It's really good for all of us to get together, even at some crazy time, and to meditate together. We'll be sitting and meditating at the time of the equinox, which is about a half an hour. But I'd first like to talk about the equinox. Now, the equinox is a beautiful time. It's a time of balance. And it's a time where we can say, how do I have greater balance in my life? And for me, it's by, let's say, expanding.

0:00:57
And I'll tell you a story.

0:00:59
So there was a very, very strong teaching for the Indian Sangha. And it was a teaching that Vajradhara did. And this was the, the empowerment of the intermediate empowerment, we call it the boat on empowerment. And also the advanced teachings. So, the Indian sangha has been making a lot of progress. to the place where they get this intermediate teaching. So they went from being beginners to being the boat on level. And usually it always had to be me teaching. So that means that I would have to explain the first attention of the initiations or the empowerment or the transmissions. And then I would have to do the work, which is the transmissions. Now, doing a transmission or an initiation or an empowerment, it's a lot of work.

0:02:16
It's not easy.

0:02:17
It takes a lot. But like when you train really hard, you have a lot. Like if you're a martial artist right like if you if you see a great sensei, you know, break a whole bunch of bricks or something right, they go, jump. And it's because they're really strong they're really powerful so they can do that. It takes a lot for them to do it, but they're really good at it, so they can do it. So anyway, I have, I have shown on students, our students, who have gone through many years of training. And now they're capable of, you know, breaking some boards. So Vajradhara was able to do the transmission, something that it was only possible by me before. And And, and now I have many students who can do powerful teachings. And also, we have two students in India, who got the advanced teachings, because they were very successful in their, in their company. And then they went through the whole iteration of Zen Cloud, and Zen Cloud being acquired and everything. And then they started their own business right away. And now their business is taking off. And they have 50 employees. They're doing really well. So they're doing so good in their yoga that they got to the advanced teachings. And that's amazing. And you guys, the advanced students, you remember when I gave you the empowerments for the advanced teachings, well, Vajradhara was able to do it for them. I was great. I'm like, I was on the call.

0:04:15
I was watching.

0:04:16
I was like, hmm, hmm, hmm.

0:04:17
Well, cool. I don't have to do this. I used to say this to my students, like, little by little. I'm like, oh, yeah. guys, you know, you're a black belt, you guys start teaching new students martial arts. Then people would teach. I'm like, oh, you're, you know, you're a meditation teacher, you start teaching introduction and beginning meditation. And then they start doing that. So I'm like, I'm going to, I'm going to train everybody else. So I don't have to do nothing. But actually I do some. So I have a powerful second attention. So this is what we call the spirit. And I told this story, like I was in New York and I was working with. He was a third degree black belt. And then he would train everybody, you know, up to first degree black belt. But when it was time for that test, once a year, the great sensei from Japan would come. And he would be there for the test. And, you know, the third degree black belt administered the test, did everything. But then Takahashi sensei, when he came from Japan, he was there for the test. And he just sat there. He didn't say nothing. He just sat there. But because he was there, we called it, oh, so put up. It's like the great help or something like that. And it was like the big deal that the sensei came and sensei just sat there. He's just like, I showed up. It's my job. But no, I'm kind of kidding, but it's true. But that means that, ospoto means it's a big, powerful thing for the person who's at the top of the organization, like spiritually, the top of the organization. And what it does is it brings a great help, a great aid. It's the spirit of things. So I work in the second attention. So I don't have, you know, like I've got students all over the world and stuff, right? I support my students in the second attention. We call it in spiritual ways, right, but in many ways, in many aspects, I do teachings in the second attention. advanced students who are able to talk, give you the first attention information that you need, and they also are able to do the mystical teachings, empowerments, initiations, transmissions, and all the way up to the advanced level, right? All the way up to teaching you how to be enlightened. And so I was very, very, very happy about this. Because I've seen lots of showdowns do, you know, organizational management, like the Abbots of Bowdoin. And I've seen them do great, beautiful spiritual teachings, the transmissions and empowerments. But this was a good one because this is the advanced empowerment. And this is where it gets people to that highest level. So I'm really, really happy about that. And now I get to focus on what I'm strongest at, which is actually not even talking. My strongest teachings are in the second attention. Nothing to be said. You know, it doesn't have to be in a satsang, at a class. So I'm really happy about our spiritual organization. There's a greater positivity, greater balance, because the shodhans and the arhans are able to do everything. He used to just be me. So when I had my teacher, everyone's all, he's magic. Right, he's just magic because all he was powerful, and he did magic, you know, like, you know, walk on air, turn invisible, turn into a light, you know, stuff like that. So, like, he was just the one who was, like, the most powerful, he was enlightened, he was magical. And the rest of us were just jerks, including myself. But I trained, I practiced, I meditated, I went through all the mystical transmissions and everything, and then I became that. And so I became that same thing to you. And now I have these Shodans and Arhans who are that too. This is amazing to see. It's just great. It's amazing. You know that, um, there's that movie Mr. McGorriam's Wonder Emporium or something like that, right? And in the movie it's like there's this guy and he's magic and his assistant is like, hey you're gonna, you're, you're, you're like, going to retire? Yeah, but what am I going to do? He's like, you're in the thing. And then she's like, why? Well, I can't because you're magic. Now, so that's a good movie. Let's watch that today. Anyway, so, um, yeah, so this is the wonderful thing about the pathway to enlightenment is that, you know, you might find first the Buddha and then you learn from the Buddha and then you become the Buddha. Yeah and so I'm really happy that we have a greater strength and a greater balance in our school because we have advanced students who can do you know all the all the amazing work all the magic. So, I just wanted to say, that's great, this is wonderful, and I want to meditate with you. So, we're going to meditate for three songs. Focus on the navel, the heart, and the third eye. And sit nice and straight. And we'll have our equinox meditation together. Let's begin.

0:11:11
So, thank you. so so So You You so the the the so So, so So, you you you So so so the the the the so so So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so so so you So it's really beautiful to see that this is a successful organization. You know, like if we look at, let's say, SKA, Shotokan Karate of America, there's a great sensei, but he taught these black belts to be really good in the art.

0:23:45
And now the black belts can be all around the country or around the world, and they teach so perfectly. standard of martial arts is perfectly the same. So we have that here too, we have a very high standard of enlightened practice. And it works, it's magic. It's really good to see that we can have that impeccability and share the way in all sorts of different dimensions. And then this gives me a little time because I have to actually like go, I'm going to be in New York for the next quarter pretty much. You probably won't see me until the solstice because I have to go to New York. There's a group of seven very, very advanced people from, you know, my, from her students and my teacher, my contemporaries. And they, they want to show me some things. They're really good. They want to show me some things about about health for me, and teaching. do and the yoga is, you know, I was like, what do we do? Sit and then we just meditate. It's all in the second attention. It's not easy to explain, but it's very advanced practice. So I like hanging out with them. So I'll be in New York and I will be working in the second attention. And my students will be, you know, when you are coming to a class, you'll be sitting with my advanced students. And then I'll come back and we'll see what the next thing is. Yeah, but these guys are really, really good, really great. And the showdowns we're teaching are just amazing. So it's just everything's just so cool. Like it's like enlightenment wonderland. So these guys in New York, I got to tell you just about them. They, their yoga is very advanced. So yoga is like a vehicle, right. So I like to say that I kind of drive a bus. I drive a bus, I got you guys on my bus, taking you guys around, and I'm a good driver. These guys are like Formula One. Their vehicle is like a super fast, amazing something. So then I go and hang out with them, and they're all here jumping this. I'm like, oh wow, I can drive pretty good, but boy, this thing goes way faster than my bus. So it's just so fun to hang out with them. They're really good, very advanced. Anyway, but my Shodons are advanced enough to get you to the enlightenment. Like, for example, it was Vajradhara, he saw, so a few people got spiritual names, right? And spiritual names, when you get a spiritual name, it's because you've let go of kind of your old karma of the self and then your spiritual dharma, that direction starts to emerge. And it used to be that I would always see it, right? I'd be like, oh, I see that your spiritual name is this. Or I would hear it a lot of times. I'm like, I hear it with my third ear, what your spiritual name is. And so I used to tell people their spiritual names, but now Shraddhans and Arhants are like, oh, I'm seeing this person's name. And so on the Kalki India, Vajradhara was like, oh, you know, to one of the advanced students, he's like, hey, your name is Dorje Chang. And I've seen him there going, so nice. Dorje Chang. I have a good connection with Dorje Chang because when I was in the Himalayas, I was at this one ashram, and they came over to me and they said, hey, you know, we think that you're a reincarnated master, they call it a toku, and they go, and we think you're this guy named Dorje Chang. And I was like, cool, sounds good to me. But that's where I started, that's where I started learning about Dorje Chang. So Dorje Chang, good guy. So I'm like, oh, wow, you know, it's so nice to see, you know, that Vajradhara can see that dharma, Dorje Chan. And I'm like, that's such a nice connection to me. I just love seeing like all these, you know, I've got, you know, Palden Lama yesterday on Mount Tam did an empowerment, an initiation. I was like, so happy to see that. I'm happy to see I have students that can lead desert trips, you know, go to these extremely strong places of power and lead it in such a positive, beautiful way. Ah, it's just great. I love it. Everything is happening in a very beautiful way. So the ashram that I was in, by the way, is in this mountain pass and there's a really good So, you guys know Guru Rinpoche, right? Yeah, Padmasambhava. Yeah, back up. So, Padmasambhava was hanging out near that ashram. They made the ashram there, I think, after him. But there was a little restaurant, an inn up there. And he goes into the inn, he's hanging out, and he's drinking. He's like, drinking, drinking, drinking. They're like, you're drinking a lot. You want to pay for that? He goes, I'll pay a little bit later, just bring me some more. And then he's drinking and drinking, they go, hey, by the time the sun sets, you better pay. And he goes, okay. So then he uses this power so that the sun doesn't set. And he just keeps drinking for like days. And they're like, what? He said, you said that I have to pay when the sun sets. And he's like, keeping the sun up. And then everyone's all like, you know, it's just getting too hot. And then finally they go, okay, you don't have to pay. And he goes, okay, boom, sunsets. Anyway, so after that, they built an ashram there because they thought, you know, he did a miracle there. And why not? So, and that's the ashram where they serve sake. It's true. Buddhists and their sake. Okay, anyway, yeah, so I'm just very happy to see how things are progressing. I think it's beautiful. It's, it's, our sangha has the greatest power and balance that it's and everything's getting happier. All right, and yesterday was my birthday.

0:31:16
Happy birthday.

0:31:17
All right, so thank you all so much. Beautiful to meditate with you, everyone. And those of you in Europe, I will be there shortly. And those of you in Europe, I will be there shortly. Okay, take care, everyone.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
