0:00:00
Hello and welcome to another Global Buddha Dojo Satsang. My name is Shen. Today we will experience several Shodan teachers sharing the Dharma on the topic of heartfulness. In every satsang we will start this event with a meditation. We will meditate on one song from the Vajra Great Teachers of Enlightenment album called Padmasambhava. Please focus on the heart, sit up nice and straight, and let's begin. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started.

0:00:48
so so so so so you Excellent. So in the next 20 minutes or so, I am honored to share a Dharma talk on Heartfulness. This Dharma talk will have several parts. First, we will focus on a Buddhist observation. Then, we will get more familiar with the beautiful dharmic diamond. And then we will focus on a dharmic vehicle that can actually help us to implement the first two in our everyday life. Dharma talk. I will share some personal experiences regarding that diamond and we will conclude with a second one-song meditation. So let's get started. So the topic of heartfulness. I would like to share a beautiful Dharma talk that the shared with us in 2019, June, when the song obviously did the answer Borrego Desert. We were sitting outside, it was 21st of June, Friday and then 22nd of June was Saturday. And on Friday night, the Asian talked about assemblage points. And he explained and this And this is the first part this is the observation you know like, like kind of objectively, analyzing and identifying something.

0:03:18
So, we all are familiar with the chakras, the naval chakra the heart chakra third I explained that everything in this world on this planet, actually is aligned with one of the main chakras. In other words, everything has a focus point, everything has something where they come from. It doesn't matter if it's a person in a situation. If it's existing. Anything attribute, or the planet itself. So, the neighbor chakra is focused and related to personal power, right, and increasing that and working with power, the planet Earth, where we currently experience our physical body, has an active, actively working focus point, an assemblage point, and that is very often associated with the navel chakra. So on planet Earth, we have experiences very often related to power. And you know, you want to get something, you want to achieve something you want to gain personal power you get into conflict, and you, you, you experience power. Buddhist mystics on our pathway to enlightenment, we can be more mindful where our assemblage point where our focus point is. And he highlighted that in this study, we can move away very mindfully from the assemblage point to the focus point of the naval chakra hit back. If something happens, then I will react from my guts. Instead of that... Remember Dakini's mystical gardening class? She was like, the plant made it to the teaching. Yeah, same. I am broadcasting this Dharma talk from Bodhi Woods, and we have body woods, monks, Buddhist monks sitting around us. So, you can refocus and mindfully focusing and always starting the action from the heart, if someone hits you, then maybe you can step back and instead of just hit back, react differently, react with love, react with compassion and say, why is this person suffering so much that they got to this point that they're hitting me? So, that was the Buddhist observation, you know, this planet has a certain vibration. The people on this planet can very easily tap into that vibration and then business as usual, turn on the television, you can see it every day, conflicts between individuals. However, on this study, on the pathway to enlightenment, we can practice heartfulness, we can practice mindfulness, and we can override this default the Dharmic Diamond. So one might say it's a Buddhist user guide. It's a very simple, four lines long statement. And that is called the Heart Sutra. So, after, after this observation. They kind of narrowed it down, they as in like a PFC into that narrowed it down to four lines of, you know, a quick summary a little little tweet. you can interact with and you can take it into your heart. So the Heart Sutra says hate can never dispel hate. Only love can dispel hate. This is the law. law, ancient and inexhaustible. So that's it, you know, describing how this video game works. Like, hey, are you in the Doom video game or Halo and you're like, congrats, then next round will be exactly the same. But if you react from your heart, if you start the action from the dimensions of peace, balance and love, then you can just memorize it. You put it in your pocket and then you just go with it. You know, often they have like beautiful poems and stories about, you know, the river in the forest and the fish is talking to the frog, but this is like, hey, this is the user guide, how this video game works. So we are extremely fortunate people because in our school, we have a vehicle, and this is the third part of this Dharma talk. We had the Buddhist definition, we had the diamond that we can take it to our heart. A dharmic vehicle is always a structured first attention practice that helps the partitioner to develop faster on our pathway to enlightenment. So the Ajahn is redirecting our attention all the time to the practice of taking suffering and sending love. So, bodhicitta is a dharmic vehicle. A dharmic vehicle means that you practice that, you are on the bus, you go faster, and guess what? That is a legit way to reach enlightenment. We have documented cases, one might say, where someone goes absolutely bonkers of experiencing existence through their heart. Their assemblage point is now their heart chakra. They're driving in traffic, you are driving in traffic, and then someone cuts in front of you. And instead of her. You're like, you overwrite this video game and become a character in Doom who dodges the bullets and then sends back...

0:15:24
Love.

0:15:25
All right, let's move on. And I want to share a personal story about this beautiful teaching that the ocean shared with us in 2019. June, I attended on a beautiful Hawaiian teaching with the Ajahn and a few students. And after that, I flew out to Budapest, Hungary. And on the 19th of June 2021, I was still processing that beautiful Hawaiian power trip, life-changing experiences, and you know, sometimes you need time to just process and integrate the experiences. So I attended on a few Dharma talks where the Ajahn shared the Dharma with the Hungarian sangha. But I intentionally, you know, showed up only five minutes before the class. And, and we were at the Margaret Island. And I remember I showed up five minutes before the class and I was sitting at the very back, kind of like hiding behind the tree. And I'm like, yeah, you know, I'm so happy after Hawaii and, and, um, yeah, the boss will do his show and I'm just this ninja here. And then the Aja started talking and it's like oh happy to be here. Shan, Shan is here. Hey Shan, hey what's up, hey you want to do a dharma talk? And you know I'm like... And of course I replied with the only possible answer which is it would be an honor. So, half an hour later, I found myself sitting in front of the Hungarian Sangha, and I said, I would like to share a Dharma talk that the Ajahn shared with us in 2019 June in the Anselbury Desert. And then I shared the teaching on assemblage point. Now fast forward to 2022. May 20. Friday, aka yesterday. So, the original teacher. I feel a little bit under the weather. And I would like to have a substitute teacher. So, I'm sitting here in front of you, sharing this beautiful diamond of Dharma and utilizing lineage holder teachings, meaning we are kind of like recycling this beautiful diamond. One more time. And this is how the light works. Heartfulness is you practicing beautiful dharmic diamond teachings, you're interacting with those beautiful dharmic vehicles. And so at the end of this Dharma talk, I would like to summarize it. And then of course we will conclude with a second one-song meditation. So you have the option as part of this amazing sangha to rewrite your focus from the zero endgame, you know, if someone wins, that means someone else is losing. Very duality-based experience of this existence. You can overwrite it by, for example, practicing heartfulness, with practicing bodhicitta, and say it's not you and me, we are all one. I'm moving up to my heart chakra, unity. And actually your suffering is my suffering and my light is your light. And we do not have a conflict because we are in unity. So let's tie a bow on this with another meditation. We will meditate on one song from the Vayu Big Island album and this song is called On Nakoa's Boat. A little storytelling, 30 seconds here. So Nakoa is an actual fella living in Hawaii and this song was written by the Ajahn. And the Ajahn, when he visited us in Hungary in like 2011 or so, he explained that Nakoa is taking out peeps on his boat for a whale and, you know, dolphin thing. And so, this song, as the Ajahn explained to us, is capturing this joyful state of mind, very child caretaker personality vibe, you know, very like, yay, kind of energies, as someone would sit on a boat and interact with the dolphins and the magic of the ocean. So that's the background on this song. And now let's meditate. Sit up nice and straight. Focus on your heart. And let's begin.

0:21:32
So the the the the so you you you the the the so you

0:22:51
Hi everybody. My name is Tara and I really appreciate Shen and the stories and the teachings you shared with us. I felt a beautiful feeling of the heart and the heartfulness that you so generously and kindly shared with us. I think it's beautiful. It's one of my favorite teachings in the school, as all the other ones, of course, too. So thank you very much. So I wanted to transition us into transparency forum. So the transparency forum is now going to be a part of the old Sangha Satsang. We heard your feedback that there's a little bit too many events and sometimes it's hard to make it to all of them. So we wanted to bring this conversation about you know things in our sangha into all sanghas at some because we all should participate, listen and yeah ask questions, have ability to chime in and ask questions. So the reason we started having these transparency forums in the first place is because of the transparency. We want to be honest and transparent about things that are going on in our school. So this is, again, a school of enlightenment. And there were kind of negative reviews of the school. started. So there's many points that these reviews are touching on. And we wanted to be very honest and transparent with you. Now, some of you have read this review, some of you haven't. And I mean, if my personal opinion, which you don't have to really share, but in my personal opinion, I would not recommend reading them because they leave kind of like a stain on your consciousness and they affect you. So it's like wearing a beautiful white dress and then having like a little bit of a, you know, ink stain. So you have to kind of process it. However, I respect you, we respect you as an organization. We know that you're all mature adults and you have your own rights, your own opinions and your own ways of looking at life, your own perspective, and we wanted to honor that. So we wanted to come as we are, very open and honest about the things that are going on. And so start a conversation with you. So one of the big points in the review is, is the fact that we don't really take constructive, but there's no way to provide constructive feedback so this is going to be our conversation today about taking constructive feedback and I would like to share this conversation and I'm not going to be talking about it. So I'm going to pass the mic to her and then she will chime in with her perspective. Thank you, Tara. And thank you, Shen, for the beautiful teaching. Excuse me, there's another speaker here in the room.

0:29:15
Sorry. So, I wanted to make a really quick point on heartfulness to add to Shen's beautiful talk. Part of the spiritual path, and especially in our lineage, we really try to look at life through the lens of the heart. We do think critically, but we open our heart and we let all of life pass through there. And in doing that, we really open ourselves to the best of all experiences, because there's light and dark in everything. But we take the best parts, and we take those with us. And it's really an act of self-love. we show up to things with an open heart and we connect to the part of us that isn't grasping or blaming or fearful. And so, you know, a little bit about what Tara was mentioning, with feedback, you know, critical thinking about the things that you learn, and, you know, whether you agree with them or not, and part of receiving feedback is really, again, filtering everything through this lens of heartfulness, of what can I take away from an experience, right? And sometimes you might think it's a negative experience or not a helpful experience, but there's always something we can take away. If you consider, you know, the death of a loved one or a friend, which is a not arguably very painful experience, but we celebrate the life of said person and we take away the best parts of that experience. So that is kind of how we operate on this path, is from this place of heart, from this this lens of love for ourselves and everyone around us. So with that, I pass the baton back to Tara. Thank you, Paula and Mama.

0:32:12
Yeah, I really appreciate that insight or perspective of just filtering everything through the lens of the heart. And I wanted to add to it as well. I think that there is a bit of a difference between constructive criticism and pure negativity or opinions. It's, it's a methodology for going from a limited state of awareness, seeing life in one way to seeing life from many different aspects, like looking at life as a diamond with many different dimensions. So, so there's a difference between what I think about what that should be, and how I feel about it versus a methodology that's been created by Buddha by enlightened teachers, and has been established for centuries right that has been proven effective for bringing beings from the state of mind of limitation to, to the state of mind, or to awareness of all of life. If we as individuals knew how to do it, if our opinions would help us, then that would be great, right? We can just have an opinion, expand our awareness, poof, we're happy regardless of circumstances. But I think the reason we come to school like this or any other spiritual school is because actually opinions don't help. And what really helps is guidance, you know, opening our hearts, stilling our minds, stopping thoughts ultimately, and receiving guidance for somebody who's done that before. So there is a difference between a constructive feedback, how things are done in the school, versus, well, how that's how I should, I think should think should be or like I'm negative about this, this and that. Having said that, even, even if you don't know the difference between the opinion or negative view or constructive feedback, we still encourage you to share with us your feedback. And that's, you know, we've done a number of surveys in the school and we continue to work with you and your feedback and your experience. And the reason is because we try to empathize with what you feel and how what the what the experience of this path and this school feels like to you so that we can improve it really and so the student journey team that you might have heard about some of you have have experienced it firsthand through interviews and surveys, is it was created exactly for that reason to empathize with students to take the feedback, however, this feedback might look like whether we like it or not. We try to stay very, very neutral, and just hear you out, take this feedback and improve your experience as students in the school. So constructive feedback is always very, very welcome. Now, so I think I wanted to have a little exercise with us as a sangha, all of us, and go into that place of heartfulness, or continue dwelling in this place, continue what Shan and Paldwin Lama started. And I want us just to close our eyes for a couple of minutes and reflect on why we're here. It is so important. So I just wanted to, I'm not going to prompt you, you know, like can tell you what you call this or you call that. Just what is your reason and motivation for being here? Why are you here? So let's just close our mind for a second. I'll stop talking and then we'll reflect on that. you you

0:36:53
Okay, beautiful. This is heartfulness. We just went into our heart and we connected with the feeling that perhaps we've experienced when we first joined the meditation class or when we knew we wanted to keep coming back. And again, I'm not going to put words in your mouth. I would like for you to have your own personal experience. And everyone's experience I know is going to be different. So there is our, we have our logical mind, and we have our heart mind. That's something that's referred to in Tibetan Buddhism as Sita. It's called heart mind. It's the mind of the heart. Tibetan Buddhism as Sita, it's called heart mind. It's the mind of the heart. It's something that's beyond words and something that logical mind can't always comprehend. They almost run two separate tracks.

0:38:25
And so we tried to align these two tracks when we practice silence, right? Practice meditation and Bodhisitta. So for me, I'll share why I'm here. When I first started the school, for the first time, I knew that there is the possibility of change. I never knew in my life that my stream of thoughts can change. I've experienced a great amount of depression, insecurity, self-doubt, limitations of what I am and what I can do in life, what my life will look like. And I was just stuck in it completely. And when I meditated with Samvara or heard him talk about the Dharma, I just for the first time in my life, I knew I could change. Because we are what we think. Everything that we are arises with our thoughts. With our thoughts, we create the world. And I really took it to heart because I said to myself, really, now I can create a different world for myself. I can live in a different world than I've lived before. And mind you, my mind said, no, no, no. You can never change. We know how it goes. We know the track. We know the story, yet something in me that was very quiet, yet very powerful, believed, had this very profound feeling and belief that no, we actually can change. Things are going to change. And that's a possibility, and that is the opportunity I have here. And I'm going to do it. Because all the other pursuits I've been doing so far kind of brought me to the dead end. And now, that is my experience. I don't want you to think that you all have to have this experience. It is completely personal to every one of you. So now I am here because I did change my life, turned around completely and became something I could never imagine. And now I'm here because I love light more than I love anything else. Nothing else in life really matters as much as light. The truth, the shining, the exuberant, the ecstatic, the quiet, you know, like Paul Delmano was saying, many, every dimension of life are in this light and I can connect with it and I can see it and I can feel it and nothing else matters. It is the most beautiful, the most profound, the most meaningful thing for me. So I wanted to share that with you. And then if you feel like you want to share your experience and why you're here I would like to invite you or just if you want to do a journal entry and I promise you the moment you decide and reconnect with such feeling you will be in your heart it will be you will experience your personal heartfulness.

0:42:46
There's something else I want to say.

0:42:50
I can't remember right now.

0:42:56
Oh, right.

0:42:58
Now, there might be some of you who could not find a reason why you're here. And that is okay. It is completely fine. If there is really no reason for you to be here. If you've gotten everything that you wanted to get and you can't find excitement or even a desire to participate in any of our offerings and any of our courses, maybe this is a good time to leave. And maybe that's it, you've gone as far as you could go and maybe that is you experience and you needed to experience and now there's nothing more for you here and that is good stopping point. So this exercise has two sides. One side is reconnect, which is the reason why you're here, and another side is to part ways because you have exhausted everything you could have gotten from this path. So, and it's completely okay. And there is a way to peacefully part ways with the school, and there's nothing wrong with it, there's never been anything wrong about it. People come and go all the time. again, how we can improve, what could have we done better to support you. And if you want to share, the Student Journey team is right here for you. I would love personally to hear your experience in recapitulation. It's always really powerful. So, we will soon open this forum for your questions. But before we get there, I would like to transfer the mic to Davie, who would like to share an announcement with us.

0:44:59
Hi, everyone. Thank you so much. Thank you, Tara.

0:45:01
Thank you, Paul and Lama and Chen. And so for those of you who might not know or be familiar, my name is Davie and I am leading the outreach section of our organization of the Sangha. So I wanted to, from on the heels of that beautiful heartfulness teaching, I'd like to start the announcement by just really acknowledging the teachings here today and also the lineage of expression that our school and our Sangha has had. So we've had phases of SF Awakened Mind and beautiful teaching initiatives from that and Buddha Dojo that have led us to be in this place of being a large global sangha that we are all gaining these beautiful teachings from. So I want to acknowledge everyone who's participated in those different renditions and variations of our sangha's growth. And the intent of this announcement today is to really acknowledge those phases and share some updates about what you might see changing as, as Tara mentioned we are working on incorporating the feedback that we're hearing and as a global song is something new structures of operations to optimize everyone's, everyone who is a current students experience. So, with that before making changes. We wanted to inform you that you might notice certain things. So those items are that on the Buddha dojo website, we're not offering free meditation classes anymore. Teachers are absolutely invited to continue teaching. We're just letting you know that some of the pages on this website may change. And that again our intent on that is, is to communicate, so that if and when you have further questions, you know, details about how this might continue to shift and evolve but we just wanted to make you aware of those few points that you might notice changes to the website, and how some communications are coming to you. Just to make sure if I'm missing anything else. Yeah, I think that's everything. But mostly, I just really appreciate and, again, want to celebrate the steps that have been put into place to allow for participation in the All Sangha Satsang like today. And we're about to transition now into a part that can be interactive and conversational and get your questions answered and brought forward so just, we can I think transition to that portion but just to feel comfortable and know that there will be more updates coming and especially for those of you that teach meditation and have have students that need you need to maybe support and further explain any of these changes coming so we will support you and having that information as we continue to grow.

0:48:50
So, thank you so much.

0:48:52
Thanks so much, Davy. So, please direct your questions to Deanna, she will be moderating our forum today and Davy, Paldon Lama and myself will answer your questions as appropriate. if you don't want everyone to see your question. Or you can direct it to everyone. But she'll read them out. Could you share the email addresses we can bring up issues to?

0:49:23
Yes.

0:49:24
Is it advice at buddhatojo.com?

0:49:28
Yes.

0:49:29
I'm going to go to the.com.

0:49:37
I froze for a minute I was going to say there, there are different email addresses for different types of feedback depending on either what it's regarding or how possibly confidential personalized you'd like that to be so I think for now the best would be to to student journey so to Tara right for, and then we can follow up with an official contact of those different addresses probably from from Samba comes to clarify the different ones.

0:50:04
Yeah, so you can do advice if it's like kind of like grievances. And that's only one person sees that and that's the kidney and then confidentiality is respected so nobody will know about it. You can also speak to your mentor if you have a good working relationship with your mentor or your yoga lead. But the most confidential and most private advice and the next level of structural changes is the student journey after the doctor.

0:50:59
We can send an email with all of these.

0:51:01
Yeah, that's a good idea.

0:51:02
Yeah, we'll follow up with communication.

0:51:06
OK, a couple of questions coming in now. In my experience, I often didn't know why I was here, but I left myself open to experience. And it gave me some time. And things became clear. What advice can you give people who don't know why they are here but are not certain they want to leave yet either.

0:51:28
Well, that's what you like to think. Sure. As I mentioned earlier, we do like to use critical thinking on our path. And so as you participate in different activities and interact with different people here, you know, mentors, meditation teachers, peers, yoga leads, benefits you gain and in the ways that you change, the ways that your mind changes. And you know, if you see positive changes in your physical life, your emotional balance, then that's a good start. So I would really recommend reflecting on those things, reflect on how your life has changed or how it's going at the moment. And if all seems well, I would say you're on the right track. And really try to keep track of how it's going.

0:52:38
And if I may add, I think this is a really beautiful practical aspect because it's

0:52:42
true for a lot of us, our physical lives just got better. You know, our, just the quality of physical life got better. Also, there can be no rational reason why you're here, yet you're drawn to teaching, you look forward to the next satsang, or you look forward to the next meeting with your meditation teacher and you don't really know why, it just feels good. So that's another aspect. And so the mind doesn't always have to know why, you just have to feel it and then you'd be like, okay, I am loving this and I don't know why. And that's okay. Let the love lead the way.

0:53:26
Okay. Are people always allowed to leave and come back at any time and take any amount of break from school or is there an application process to come back into the school after a break? Is it different for different levels of students?

0:53:44
I can take that. I think that we've had several examples of people leaving, coming back, and some

0:53:51
people took a short break, some people took a longer break. I've seen students who have come back and became stronger and more determined because they've had time to reevaluate and see benefits they gain from the school, from being in the school. We don't have exact process yet for coming back, but we would like to have some kind of essay or some kind of a reflection from you why you want to be here after you come back. And that is just to make sure that's what you really want. Again, this is a great feedback and great question and we will reflect on it as a student training team. Thank you. We have, we talked about the lens of love and heartfulness, but how is looking at a

0:55:06
common people, people outside of the sangha as quote unquote muggles, a compassionate loving lens.

0:55:17
Yeah, so I think that's a term that gets kind of the heart of the matter is looking at people's current circumstances and their lens, right? So if you're looking through kind of the way of power and the way of grasping and fearfulness, then that's your experience. Whereas if you're part of a spiritual path, and it doesn't have to be this one, it can be any school, it can be no school, it can be your personal path, then you're looking through a different lens. And for me personally, I don't like using that word to refer to folks outside the school or outside of any practice. And I have a lot of compassion for people who have suffering and just haven't found their way and internally or externally through a school. So I would just say that you know, we look at our fellow human beings with love and compassion and just understand where they're at and where they're coming from. They might not be in the same place as me or you or us. They might be in a place of fear and suffering and they might not be ready for any spiritual practice, be it this one or any other. So to make a short story long, yeah, don't use that word. And I globally apologize for anyone who's heard that word used by any of us.

0:57:24
So yeah, that is good feedback.

0:57:28
It's not a positive way to refer to people wherever they're at. It doesn't matter if they're in a school or not, or in a different school.

0:57:47
Can I share a story about that?

0:57:49
Yeah.

0:57:50
Okay. Actually, it's a story shared by one of our sangha mates during one of our power trips, and it really stuck with me, and actually changed my perspective in many ways. So it's a story about how this person went to visit their parents and they spent some time with parents and had a fresh perspective on their life and what it used to be and what it is now. And after they left the parents' home to go back to where they live, to travel back during this transition, they reflected upon how fortunate their life was and how they have access to all of the ways and skillful means to develop their mind, to improve their life, and just change their, broaden their perspective on life. And then upon this reflection, they realized that their parents don't have access to all of this, or maybe not ready for all of this. And this person was overcome with a wave of compassion for their parents and it was so profound that they had this amazing spiritual experience of And I think that's best approach, really going forward, and that's how we should look at someone who doesn't have access to the same tools as we do. And same energetic connections to enlightenment. to these people. Having said that, I have to add one more thing. We're also on the path of mysticism. So we can't just run around the bad neighborhood. You know, like there is a neighborhood

0:59:38
where there's a high rate of crime and murder.

0:59:43
And then, you know, we can't just run around with an open heart, just run into the sunset and get shot. You know, like we want to be street smart as well. So you want to guard your light in a way. And then when you walk through a bad neighborhood, you want to walk through it as a martial artist. And you want to have your other tools, you know, your self-defense tools, because it's not a proper dharma for you to get hurt. It's not a proper dharma for you. It's not a proper dharma for those who have an ill intention towards you or towards anybody. So you have to be street smart and you have to be, turn on your martial arts awareness in the places where you know you're gonna get hurt. So I do encourage you to have open heart on one hand, but at the other hand, I would like for you to guard your heart, guard your well-being, guard your energy, and be street smart about that neighborhood.

1:01:05
Excellent points.

1:01:06
So we have a comment, not a question. I just wanted to take a second to thank Golden State. I was saddened to hear of its closure, however, I realize life is about change.

1:01:25
I am a success story of that institution, so I will be forever grateful to Golden State and its teachers.

1:01:32
Thank you.

1:01:34
Thank you.

1:01:40
It seems like enlightenment is the singular goal of participating in the Sangha. What

1:01:50
exactly is the Sangha's definition of enlightenment? Good question. I love your questions. It just makes me so happy to hear these things. These

1:02:03
are great questions. I'll call them with your mind.

1:02:03
That's such an easy one. That's why you got it.

1:02:11
Our definition of enlightenment or liberation is freedom from suffering. that does not have to be your goal. As someone who's on the path or someone who's in the school, your goals can vary and they can change too. Maybe today your goal is to get a tech job or to work on mindfulness so that you can change the lens with which you look at life and you know maybe years from now you might learn or come to see that enlightenment is within your grasp. So it doesn't have to be the end-all be-all goal and you don't have to believe in it right now or ever really as long as you keep doing your practice and it continues to benefit you as you grow and change, that's really the goal of any spiritual practice, is to improve your life.

1:03:27
I was just going to add one more detail if I could to that because I think something that helps is, as I've also heard it described over the course of my experience in the Sangha is having a direct experience with reality without mental modifications, which helps in the sense that because even when we're on at this path and growing and expanding our consciousness and awareness and our connection to enlightenment, we can still experience pain and hard times and suffering. So if we only stayed in that definition of free from suffering, it doesn't mean you don't experience those things anymore. It just, but you do have a clear reality experience in a sense that they don't hold you in a same way. So just to know, because you don't want to always feel separate from enlightenment either, just because you might continue to have hardships or challenges. So just knowing that the clarity with which you experienced, I think that's how I've heard some are also so beautifully say and express that.

1:04:30
So I just want to add that as well.

1:04:36
Okay. Next question.

1:04:40
Why is the focus so much on working in technology. It isn't not asking us a criticism, just curious. I'll take that one. So, technology, and the very practical and just from the pragmatic perspective, it's an extremely lucrative career. It's a career that affords you a very good living. First of all, it pays really well. So you can have your basic necessities in life. if you live in California or Hawaii or East Coast. And so it just supports you so that you don't have to worry about your next bill. And I love that, it's very helpful for me. I feel like I am in a really good situation and I can share that with others. Now, if you have additional money, if you have excess and you wanna share, there's a lot of charities and there's a lot of beautiful causes in the world that you can support whatever you care about if you care about environment, you can support environmental organizations, if you care about about the animal well-being, you can supply that cause. And I do, you know, that's what I, you know, I just enumerated things that I actually care about. And I have, also, if you want to support spiritual organizations, which I also care about, you can do that as well. So money gives you freedom to transact with the world in a very powerful way. Now, technology also gives you mobility, you can work from home. I think COVID really was a really good example of that, how you did not have to, for those of you who work in technology, you don't have to lose your job, you kept your job and you probably, in some ways, your conditions improved because all of a sudden you didn't have to commute and you could live in any place in the world you wanted. If you wanted to live in Spain, in Iceland, and in Hawaii, in Caribbean, you could, because technology, the job and technology arts perspective, it develops your mind in a really beautiful way. It organizes and structures your mind and allows you to be very still during your work. So in meditation we learn that we still our mind by having a single point of focus. In meditation we focus on the chakra. And we also say that job is also our spiritual practice. It's a way of merging with reality. It's yoga, right? Job yoga, emerging with your work. Now, because the structure of technology is often really complex and it requires your full attention, you can focus on the spiritual problem, sorry, on the technical problem, and it becomes your single point of focus. So in that regard, it becomes your meditation. And so, so imagine, you know, like we often say, you're sitting at work, you're focusing on solving technical problem, you're merging with eternity, and you're getting paid for it. So I think there's a lot of wins in our job as technologists. And since you asked that question, I think that we will have themes for us for upcoming months that talk about that. And I love that subject. And I think we can elaborate more on it and share more stories from that people in school. Thank you. All right, I think this is a question for Devi. I do not really understand if it is a personal mentoring that's being proposed or just a survey on how the sangha works. I don't know that I mentioned anything about a survey or mentoring specifically today. So, can you just repeat with the question they're asking about. Don't really understand if it is personal mentoring what we are proposing or just a survey on how the song of works. I think what we want to communicate is that email is always a way that you can initiate any feedback and that's why we'll make those channels available to you so you can easily do that having a mentor structure within it. So whether if you don't already have a mentor, that's again where we're working to make sure that the internal journey is as positive as possible. So definitely work with your mentor if you have one. If you don't have one, we're working on making sure you do. And so the channels of feedback are really definitely through that mentor connection, also yoga lead connection and direct emails to any of the groups, and then we're working to make sure that we're talking to each other and getting those addressed as a cohesive sangha so. And if you like surveys over, over that, then let us know and we'll do more surveys. So I think that's, we want to be hearing what is the most effective structures for facilitating feedback. I hope that answers your question if not feel free to email. Do we have time for a couple more. Yeah, let's do it. Can you explain the difference between a school and the lineage. And what exactly is our lineage. I think the word lineage implies continuity. So, it's a continuity of the teaching. vehicles, and we transfer energy to you to elevate your state of consciousness, so to help you out a little bit. So sometimes we get stuck in a certain state of mind, so energetic empowerments and initiations help you to see life from a different perspective. So that's the mysticism aspect of the lineage. This is how things are passed on from generation to generation of students as you know we have in our school. Many generations, I think now at this point there's six generations. And if you ask a person from every generation, they will be, we will be very aligned. It's a school of tantric mysticism, the lineage stems all the way from Padmasambhava. You can say tantra or Raso Yana. But it's, you know, very closely related to Tibetan mysticism, tradition of Tibetan mysticism. Now, the school is kind of eclectic, I would say, we take what works and we use it. So, we use also a teaching some Zen Buddhism, we use teachings of ancient Hinduism, like we read we read Upanishads, right? Or we read books about Sri Ramakrishna or autobiography of a yogi. They reflect more like a Hindu tradition of spiritual teachings. We also read a lot of books about Tibetan mysticism.

1:13:59
Let's see.

1:14:00
And we read books of the more modern authors as well. So, we take what works, and we work with it, and we use it on our pathway. With any school, there is curriculum and there's levels of learning. So if you take the normal way, we go through the school, we go to the elementary school, we go to the middle school, we go to the high school. Every level learns what's appropriate for that level. In elementary school, you'll learn your basic additions, multiplications, how to spell, how to write the letters. In middle school, you know what happens. In high school, you know what happens. So we are very similar. We start with very basic teachings, and we use them as a foundation to learn more and more as we advance through different levels in the school. Now, you have to have your foundations. Absolutely, you have to know how to meditate, you have to have an established meditation practice. You have to be familiar with the concept of the yoga. In our school we use Karma Yoga which is a yoga of action, so merging with eternity through personal action, whether it's a job yoga or working on projects. you know, have a career, successful career. Those are the basics, I would say. And we help you get a successful career

1:15:43
if you don't have one.

1:15:44
If you have one, great. You already checked that requirement. So I think to me, that's how I see the difference of lineage and school. But I would like to hear also if the mom or baby wants to chime in as well. Okay, I think this will be our last question. If we can answer it. If someone wanted to connect and have a share how our teachers and bar is doing on a song of free vacation human journey. I just I'm using case I can share but Tara feel free also if you'd like to.

1:16:44
And I think one of the things that I was talking to him, what a couple weeks ago is, I got, I think he's doing well, especially when say that.

1:17:25
I wanted to add really quick. So, Samara never really goes on vacations he doesn't have that concept in his mind, unfortunately, or fortunately for us, I guess. He actually went away to take like a sabbatical from teaching, it was 15 years ago maybe. And at that time when he took his quote unquote vacation he got a new black belt, like so he participated in several tournaments martial arts tournament so he proved his martial arts skills. a scuba diving instructor certificate so that he can teach, officially teach and certify his students scuba diving so that that tradition lives in the sangha. There's a reason for it and I'm not going to go into it but is happening right now. He is learning. And so, what he shared with showdowns and put on is that he is very engaged in learning new ways of teaching us so we can advance on this on a spiritual path more quickly and rapidly and he said it takes his entire that study and then it's in every moment he has to be very focused and mindful, and in order to learn what he went out there to learn. There was one more that came in. Maybe it could be addressed directly or email more procedural. Well, especially we haven't until 1130. So, if it's something quick. moving from one of the European sanghas to the US, be it Bay Area or Bodywoods? Criteria. I just have, you have to love the school, I guess, you know, for the students who shifted from the international sangha to the local sangha. They were the most active participants, they've come to every class, they've participated in every satsang, they've loved every event, and they just were on fire. They just knew it was for them and there's nowhere else they'd sounds like a love song. So yeah, it's like a love song. If you can write a love song about it, then you can participate. But also we are expanding our teachings in Hungary especially. There's a growing sangha, well, it's always been quite large of a sangha and And Samara is very engaged and involved in the life of that Samba. There's a lot of advanced teachers now. So, Hungarian sound that is actually is very successful. Oh yeah, talk to your mentor about it.

1:21:16
Okay. Okay.

1:21:23
I just reminder we do have the showdown.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
