0:00:00
All right, hello everyone. All right, let's begin with meditation. Sit up nice and straight, and we're going to focus on the heart chakra.

0:00:18
so so So You're my life, you're my life You're my life, you're my life You're my life, you're my life You're my life, you're my life You're my life, you're my life You're my life, you're my life You're my life, you're my life So All right, wonderful. So I'd like to talk about harmlessness. Ahimsa. Harmlessness. If I would describe enlightenment in one word, I would describe it as harmless.

0:05:17
You see, the highest truth of life is that unity exists, enlightenment exists, and it is the I that cuts that in half and creates duality. That is where there is suffering, that's where harm is caused. It's caused from self, the I. Everything's perfect, everything's enlightened until I come up and I say,

0:05:47
Ah!

0:05:48
Duality! This is good, this is bad. And in that dichotomy of awareness, there's suffering. So harmlessness is being unoffensive, hurtless, and safe. That's really the five precepts of Buddhist teachings. Harmlessness is the intent not to cause harm in any way or any dimension.

0:06:53
Harmlessness is observed in our actions.

0:06:58
We don't want to hurt someone. In our speech. And in our thoughts. Harmlessness is not just, okay, I'm not going to hurt you, but it's actually well-wishing. It's like, I'm not going to hurt you and I want you to be good. I want you to be happy. I want you to be successful. So harmlessness is the highest aspect of enlightenment, an ultimate aspect of enlightenment. If you're enlightened and you're harmful, then there's some more enlightenment to get. Now, you could look at yourself and say, well, I'm mostly not harmful, just once in a while. And that's still not good enough. That's bad. That ruins your peace. You can't be harmful sometimes. If you're harmful sometimes, you're always harmful. It's too much. There's a harmful quality to yourself that is intolerable. Like, for example, five out of six people who've played will say that Russian roulette is harmless. But that one person who gets a little on the other side, it's trouble. So being harmful is trouble. It's like when Buddha was talking about, you know, suffering. He was describing suffering as you're on an ox cart and there's a shaved wheel. So it's like you were going fine for a while and then you hit that shaved part and you're like, oh, oh my gosh, that's what Buddha said suffering is. It's fine for a while, you're not suffering and then all of a sudden, boom, you're suffering and it ruins your peace. So we have to get rid of that suffering. And And actually, a very important dimension of understanding the Four Noble Truths is, instead of saying, you know, Buddha was like, here's how you get out of suffering. But if you look at another dimension of it, you can say, instead of I suffer, there's a cause of suffering, there's a way out of suffering, the Eightfold Path is a way out, the Enlightenment teachings. You can look at another dimension and say, I'm harmful. If you're a self, there's harm. I'm harmful. There's a reason why I'm harmful. There's a way out of me being harmful. And the Noble Eightfold Path is the way out, the teachings of Enlightenment. There was this Greek philosopher, Dagnetius, and he really nailed it. He said, he said, everyone is harmful because of two things, ambition and possession. He's like, ambition and possession equals you cause trouble, cause trouble for yourself and others. And, you know, he lists a lot of ways, a lot of walks of life where people, because of their ambition or their possession, cause all sorts of harm. This is during the time of the Greek tragedies. And he pointed out in them, he's like, this is where there's ambition. This is where there's possession. In Buddhism, we call it desire and attachment. And that's what creates this whole thing that the ego rolls into, which is self, that splits unity. In Taoism, they say there's a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind

0:11:05
of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind

0:11:06
of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind That splits unity. In Taoism, they say, there's the Tao. The Tao is enlightenment. It's the perfection. And then it gets split into this yin and yang, right? Something's good, something's bad. So when there's just the Tao, they also call it just Tai Chi, it goes into yin and yang, good and bad. So that split comes from the I-perception, the perception of I. duality, which is a transient truth, but the ultimate truth is that there is only enlightenment, there is only the Tao. to have an inner focus, to solve this self that separates the perfect reality that creates duality. It comes to us to start to look deeply inside. You can't fix it on the outside. There's nothing out there you can do. Even if you do yoga out there in the business world or whatever, get a black belt, all these things, you're really focused on what you're doing inside.

0:13:02
So there's this guy, he's got a car.

0:13:06
He's driving around and then every once in a while, the car makes this big sound, like a shocking poof. And he goes, oh my God, I almost had a heart attack. He's driving, does it every once in a while. And you know, kind of like the ox cart, right? And then takes it to a mechanic and he goes, this is what's happening, can you fix it? The mechanic says, sure, yeah, no problem. And then he comes back the next day. So he had this kind of like, you know, like 1992 Plymouth kind of thing. And then the next day he comes and it is repainted in this beautiful, it was like this old dull blue color with scratches and now all of a sudden, repainted in a beautiful blue. The car looks great. And he's like, wow, this is beautiful. Ooh, my car looks awesome. And then he goes driving, and he's like, yeah, my car's beautiful. And then guess what happens?

0:14:06
Bam!

0:14:07
The ox cart.

0:14:08
You know, the same thing.

0:14:09
And he goes, whoa!

0:14:10
And it just keeps happening. And then he goes to his Zen master and says, hey, Zen master, what do I do? And he goes, let me take you to my mechanic. Actually, I'm a mechanic. Let's look under the hood. And then he looks under the hood, and then the Zen master or the mechanic, whatever, fixes what's under the hood, and then the guy goes driving, and it's a smooth ride. And whatever the coat of paint, it's most important to have that smooth ride where it doesn't backfire on you. So the inner way is to look under the hood to solve what's really going on in there, and then there's peace and everything is perfect. The outer way is paint the car, you know, throw a coat of paint on it and voila. But that isn't going to solve things. It's like that with relationships, bad ones. But let me just give you like, you know, some girls with some guy and then he gets mad and he hits her. And she's all, oh my god, that's terrible. And then the next day he's all, here's some flowers. I'm really sorry. And then she's all, okay. So that's accepting a coat of paint, right? They didn't get to the deep thing. And then guess what happens? It happens again, right? Because they didn't solve it. And then he gets mad, hits her, more flowers. That's the ox cart. So we have to look deeply into what, where we have trouble, where we have suffering, we have to go into that and we have to resolve that suffering.

0:16:02
For the cart and the ox cart,

0:16:04
there's a reason why you suffer. Because an enlightened person would go through the ox cart,

0:16:09
or the backfire of the cart,

0:16:11
and would be like, I have no problem. Didn't even notice it. But when you exist in a way of, there's a problem, then there's a problem. If you exist in a way where there's no problem, then there's no problem. That's very quantum. Understanding that there is a way beyond suffering. There is a way beyond harm You you come to the greatest story of a himsa of harmlessness

0:16:37
In from Buddhism

0:16:39
So it's the story of Angulimala Buddha went to a new area and he was teaching Everyone loved his teachings. They were having a good time and he's like, yes I'm gonna spread the teachings through the land and then they said cool Buddha But stay away from those little those little hills over there that little forest the jungle or whatever Stay away from that area because Angulimala is there. He's a killer. He just kills people for sport And they're like, he's killed 999 people.

0:17:41
Like, whoa.

0:17:43
That's a lot.

0:17:45
And Buddha says, oh, okay, cool. Thanks. So Buddha goes there. And so Buddha's walking. And then Angulimala sees him, he's hiding. And he's great at ambushing and killing people. And he sees Buddha going by, and so he goes, Raaah! He's about to get Buddha! Just about to get him, but Buddha somehow stays ahead of him. So he's like running really fast, and he's really fast, and Buddha somehow, it doesn't look like he's running, but somehow he just stays ahead of him, because of Buddha And then Angulimala gets really frustrated and says, just stop. And then Buddha is always sitting ahead of him. Buddha says, I already stopped. He's like, now you should stop. And then Angulimala stops. And then Buddha said, in a past life, you were very, very spiritually advanced, and then 999 of people who didn't like you on Twitter killed you. They got together and they killed you in a horrible fashion. And out of your compassion, you said, I want to get them through this karma of killing a pure, beautiful person fast. So I will dedicate my next incarnation to doing that by becoming a serial killer and killing them. So Buddha told him this and he said, but you've already gotten them through that, so you don't have to continue to kill more. He's like, now you can become a Buddhist monk and become enlightened. So, and Gully And Guli Mala says, sounds good to me. So he follows the teachings and he became an arhat, he became enlightened. And you know, when Buddha came back to the town to his Buddhist monks with this serial He had a mala, like one of these, he would cut a finger off of everyone he killed. So it was his mala of death. He had 999 fingers. He's all like, oh my money. He's doing some japa with that. Don't do that japa. Anyway. Anyway, so they were surprised. And then Buddha said, no, he's a monk now. He's taken, made him a Buddhist monk.

0:20:34
They were like, oh, whoa.

0:20:36
And then he became enlightened. So no matter how harmful you've ever been, there is a way to enlightenment. This is the beautiful teaching of Ahimsa. Now, to get more practical for your situation, we address harmfulness So, when you're self-important, you're always defending the self. You're like, I disagree. I think I'm good. You're just like, you'll fight to the death defending the ego, even though the ego is ridiculous. When you're self-important, you realize that made you six feet under. So, when you're self-important, there's an error. It's the stupidest thing. I always call self-importance the ego, and I always call the ego the stupidest person I've ever met. And self-importance has tremendous flaws. The ego has tremendous flaws. So someone who is very self-important, they will believe in their self-importance, even if the data, the information that they're getting is completely wrong, they will say, I'm going to do whatever I do anyway. And, you know, it creates all sorts of trouble. It creates like that financial problem we had in 2008. They're like, let's do these housing loans. I just want to do it. I think it's going to be fine. And then it creates this whole horrible great recession. There's just so many things. It creates wars, creates problems, creates trouble. People are like, I have an idea. Alan Greenspan at the time, it was like, I had a mental model and it was flawed. Yet he was, you know, he was the chief of the Fed, so he's like, I'm the boss and this is the way it goes forward. Then after everything melted down, he's like, my mental model was flawed. His ego took over and the data didn't make any sense, but his ego pushed things forward anyway. So, a true story. There's these two guys. My true story sometimes is true and sometimes it's a joke. So, bomb threat called in. Must be a true story. And these two guys go. One guy had been a, he was on the bomb squad for 40 years, and he knew everything about bombs. And he knew how to disarm them and everything. And the other guy was on the team for like 12 years and he's pretty, you know, he knew what he was doing. They get to the bomb. It's going to blow up and kill a thousand people. And they get there. And it's a new bomb that they've never seen before. It's like the next fifth generation bomb. You guys get that one? Fifth generation bomb. A bomb they've never seen before, just a really high level bomb that they go, whoa, never seen this. It's got like, you know, all the wires, color of the rainbow. And we get a lot of rainbows in Hawaii. And the guy who's been there for 40 years, he goes, I know what we need to do. We need to cut the red one. And then the other guy goes, how do you know that? Because we've never seen a bomb like this before. He's like, I'm definitely sure we cut the red one. And he's about to cut it. And he's like, how do you know? Because this is something we've never seen before. And he says, because he trusted in his self-importance. He said, I know because the unicorns and gummy bears told me, cut the red wire. You know, I know this is like a little silly, but it is exactly what people who have tremendous self-importance do. They will see goofy data and they will say, I got to come up with something. Got to make a choice, got to do something and they'll act. And that's how a lot of trouble starts. If you if you act from self defense, you're like, I need to push off anything that makes me not look good. Self-importance, self-defense, it's kind of the same thing. Like don't question me! You're like asking me why I'm going to click this button? It's because of the unicorns and the gummy bears, obviously. Cracks me up. If you are acting importance, it is delusional. I know it might make sense to you. You're like, oh, I'm doing this for all these reasons and I'm making progress and this is my reality. And the problem is that you're completely off. It's like the guy who's like, all right, first year of study, working really hard. Yes, I got good and I made it to my next, and my next, now I'm at my fourth year in the university and I'm doing great. And really he's in an insane cycle. He's like, I made it to the fourth year. Woo, I'm great, I'm wonderful. You know, and we do that in our study. We're like, oh, I got a black belt. Oh, I got a job. Oh, I did this thing. It's not to build the self. It's actually to let go of the self. We don't build the self, we transcend the self. You say, I've never been a computer programmer, and then you become a computer programmer and get a good job. I've never had a lot of money. Get a lot of money. And it's like, it's not to build the self. It's not saying I'm not what I used to be. It's always transcending self, letting go into a new definition. Because the fundamental calculus of the ego doesn't make any sense. It is fundamentally corrupt, troubled, wrong, and doesn't work. So this one guy asked this guy, other guy, he's like, what's three times six? And he's like, it's easy, 42. And he's like, what? Yeah, it's 42. How could it be 42? It's 42, How do you know? Because I would say, you take six, and another six, that's 12. And he's all, yeah, duh. And then you take another six to that 12, and it's 18. He's like, that's what you would think. That's wrong. He goes, well, how do you figure? He's like, it's easy. 1008 divided by February, 42. You totally cannot make a logical decision, because the fundamental calculus of the ego is corrupt. And anything that you come up with is garbage. So the only way to know the truth is to let go. It's to say, maybe I know a little, but I also don't know. This comes to the Buddhist way. The Buddhist way is to say, I'm right. 1008 divided by February is right. Click the red button, and then I'm going to get my diploma after four years of asylum. And in a way, you're absolutely right. So, in Buddhism, you're right, but you're also not right. Can I do this? I'm just itching my teeth. You're also not right.

0:30:27
So you're right and you're not right,

0:30:29
and the truth is indescribable. So anytime that you face anything and you say, I think this, you have to say, but I'm also wrong. And the actual truth is indescribable. And if you accept all three of those things, then you open yourself to flowing with the Dharma. But if you just think I'm right, then you're in trouble. So, that brings me to my premeditated point. Premeditated. Alright, so, see this thing? You guys know what... What is this? Do you guys know what this is?

0:31:04
Peace sign. What is it?

0:31:06
Peace sign. Oh yeah, there's a peace sign on it, right? Okay, but what do you think the function of it is? Just peace? Anyway, so I visited my mother and she gave me this. This is her like solstice gift to me that she knitted. And I'm like, it's also kind of a koan because I'm like, yeah, like, what is this, Mom? Is it a coaster?

0:31:40
Um, is it a handkerchief?

0:31:42
I don't know. Anyway, so, Mom, let me know. But anyway, there's a peace sign on it. And my mom knitted it for me as a solstice gift. I got it in a card, and I was really happy, and I was like, oh, thanks! Um, so I like that it's got a peace sign on it, it's really lovely. So I'm like, this is a, what do you call it? Let's call it a coaster. So my mother knitted me a coaster, so I could say, no, it's not. It's a string, a long string that was tied in knots together to make a little peace sign and to be something, but it's basically a string with some knots. And I would say, you know, I'm right saying it's a coaster with a peace sign and then they're right because it's just one string tied up into a bunch of knots and then you can go to like you know a quantum physicist they'll say oh it's not even a string it's a coaster, unless my mom tells me there's a different thing. I'll be like, oh! My mom will tell me the answer to the koan. I'll be like, oh! But someone who says it's one string is also right. And then, you know, the quantum physicist saying it's a bunch of atoms is also right. And then I go to the quantum physicist and I'm like, are you kidding? Come on, man. I could put a cup on this. It's a coaster. You know, so it's like everyone's right

0:33:46
and everyone's wrong.

0:33:48
And so this is how you need to understand things so that you're not harmful because you're like self-important my way. Which is, maybe you have a point, but you also have to say, but even though I make whatever points I make, I also know I'm wrong. And I know that the truth is indescribable. So this ultimately is enlightenment. It's my mom's yoga, knitting yoga. So, we have to understand that when we say, I'm right, that's self-important. And the antidote to that is to know that you're also wrong and that the truth is indescribable. Now, There's another aspect to understand and it's called peace and dharma. So if you're right and you're wrong and the truth is indescribable, if you align yourself with peace and dharma, then that's enlightening. So to stop self-importance, you say, I'm right, but I know I'm wrong. And then what's true, who knows? How can we describe it? That stops self-importance. But if you want to move on to enlightenment, you say, I'm right, I'm wrong, and what's true is indescribable. But what I need to observe is that everything has to lead to peace and dharma. If it doesn't lead to peace and dharma, it's just you stopping your self-importance. But if what you do leads to peace and dharma, that leads to enlightenment. So there was this time where there was two laymen. They came to a Zen ashram and they had a nice meditation and then afterwards they were in the vestibule of the monastery and one person picked up a little purse of coins, silver coins. The other comes over and says, no, that's mine. He goes, no, this is mine. This is mine. This is mine. This is mine. So they're like fighting over it then the Zen master comes over and says why are you guys like tripping so and there's like well this was my purse of silver coins that I think I sell no it's mine I then they absolutely believe it's theirs they're fighting over it and then And then the Zen master says, Okay, okay, let me solve this for you. They said, okay, cool. They're like, and they're both expecting the Zen master to say, This is yours! Let me use my Zen powers. Oh, it's yours. Right? So they're expecting that. And then the Zen master says,

0:37:06
Let me tell you about the merit

0:37:08
of supporting a Buddhist monastery. Let me tell you the merit of feeding a monk. And he gives this beautiful talk and they go, wow, that's so beautiful. And then the Zen Master looks to the guy on the left and he says, would you give this purse to me so I can support the temple and feed the monks?" And he's like, of course! He's moved, he sees the bigger picture. And then he goes to the guy and he says, on the right he says, would you give me your purse of silver so that it would support the monastery and feed the monks? And he says, of course! And then he says, okay, there's nothing to fight over anymore. There's peace and there's Dharma. And then they're like, okay, and then they both end up feeling good. They both had a selfless giving to their spiritual community. And then the Zen master made off with a lot of money. So, there's this time, it wasn't that long ago, maybe 400 years ago in Tibet, the Tibetan And he had a team of yaks and he had, he was in a pretty big village and he would take his team of yaks around and he was a merchant and he was doing good and he was doing it for years. And he was, you know, a pretty successful merchant. He knew what he was doing. He knew the lay of the land. He's walking around a mountain pass, leading his axe, and then he comes around and there's this giant Yeti. And he's like, oh, and before the Yeti can like claw him, he pulls out his knife and stabs the Yeti right in the heart, killing it instantly. And he's like, whoo, that thing could have killed me. That thing's big and strong and scary. So he's like, whoo, that was fortunate. And he's like, you know, maybe next time I'm gonna bring up more than a knife, like a sword. So he starts carrying a sword with him. And he's going around. It's just getting out outside of his village. And he sees a Yeti on the outside of his village. And he goes, I have to protect my village. So he sneaks up behind the Yeti, jumps on his back with the sword, splits its throat and kills it. He's like, he's like, Whoa, it's like,

0:40:09
there's a Yetis around here.

0:40:10
This is dangerous. He's like, whoo. So he's like, you know what? If I had bow and arrow, I could have got that Yeti from far away. I wouldn't have to sneak up on them. So he gets a bow and arrow, he becomes proficient in it, gets really strong, and then he starts seeing yetis all over the place and killing them, quite proficiently.

0:40:35
And then one day, he's going along the mountain pass

0:40:39
and a satchel falls off one of the yaks and just, you know, kind of important goods in it. So it falls down the mountain into a valley he's never been in before. And so he like carefully goes down the mountain, finally gets to the satchel. And then he's like, oh, okay, great. Now I have to go back. But then all of a sudden he looks around and there's hundreds of Yeti. And he looks at it as like arrows. He's like, there's too many. I can't fight them. It's enough. I'm gonna die. Then he sits there for a while. Nothing happens. So he like looks up. And he's like, hey, what's up? Aren't you guys going to kill me? And they're all, no, we're afraid of you. You're the boogeyman. You're the one who terrorizes our people. He's like, I thought you were going to terrorize my people. So, this is to say that when you have... when you see someone as an enemy, that you should look differently at this situation. There's no one, ultimately, who's an enemy. You become harmful. All the Buddhist teachings are how to beat the crap out of someone until they submit. It's always about how to take a difficult situation and resolve it. It starts with intent. It starts with intention. tend to be harmless in every circumstance of my life, then that energy of harmlessness goes out and you'll face difficulties and then you can overcome it with skillful, spiritual methods. There was the Jains, at the same time as Buddhism, is actually a more popular spiritual group. And the Jains were enlightened and perfect and all sorts of things. But they had this one thing that even the Buddhists didn't do. They were like, if I'm going to walk somewhere, I'm going to have a gentle broom to wipe the floor from little bugs, because I don't want to step on a bug. I don't want to kill a little ant that might be in front of me. So I have a little broom to just swipe it away. Swipe left. Swipe left. And the little bug gets pushed out of the way so I don't step on it. So they have this intent and when they sit down they're like, oh, before I sit down, I'm going to dust my seat off. Just make sure there's not a bug that's going to get death by butt. So they're very conscientious. They're like, this is just part of our practice of ahimsa, of harmlessness. We care. We don't even want to step on a little bug. It's intent. And when you have that intention, you can build it into your life amongst everyone that you work with, anyone that comes across you. They should feel that you're not harmful. And then when you're not harmful to people, then they start to open up. They start to connect. They also would wear masks across their nose and mouth for a couple reasons. They're like, well, we don't want a little, I don't want to like yawn and like a little bug fly in my mouth and then I eat it. And then also, if I have a cold, I don't want to pass it on to someone. So when the COVID, you know, pandemic happened, you know, the Janes were sitting there going, what? Everyone's got to wear masks now? We've been doing that for 3,000 years. We got it down. No, they were doing that 3,000 years ago. Wearing masks, saying, I don't want you to get sick from me. Isn't that compassionate and selfless? But in America, we were all like, no one gave a care about a mask until they were told you should wear one. And then they were all like, what? I don't have to do nothing. Because we're Americans. Love that, it's really funny. All of a sudden, something that they never had any opinion on was something they didn't want to do in Texas. And let's see, Halloween 2021, these three kids come over, knock, knock, trick or treat, you know, trick or treat, it's like, oh, you come over and get some candy. And usually they go, oh, look at those costumes, they're so cute, you know, like, oh, what are you, a Disney princess, or what are you you know it's just fun for the person who's giving them candy to see what they're wearing and it's like the spirit of Halloween. Anyway these three kids knock on the door lady opens the door and she's all

0:47:21
ah oh she's like, really?

0:47:22
And then the other guy, I'm, you know, Michael Myers from the Halloween, the 20 Halloween movies, the killer. She's like, really? And then the other guys all, I'm obviously Darth Vader. And then she's like, really? And then they all say, yeah, we just don't wear masks though. We don't like masks. Masks are over. So I was like, you know, a lot of people don't like masks anymore. It's going to change all Halloween. I was thinking, you know, like my little kid, I would just put like a, you know, surgeon's mask and push them to the door and say, I'm, I'm wearing, I'm wearing a freaking mask, give me some candy. That cracks me up. Okay, so now we get to be practical. Harm comes when you are disempowering action. It is

0:48:32
action that you're aware of that is disempowering,

0:48:35
and it is action that you are unaware of that is disempowering. We'll start with unaware. So I used to work at this company in New York called Bankers Trust. And my boss was this really great guy. And he was, you know, kind of senior in the company. And he was doing good. And he was older. And he's like, oh, it was a really tough time for me, like, you know, establishing myself in my career. I was like, why? And he said, because, you know, like, he started, like, his career when he was in the 1950s. And he was working really hard with a bunch of guys and everything in the company was the same, except for one thing. The other guys, the Gentiles, the guys who weren't Jewish, they would go, hey, to the customer, you know,

0:49:43
let's go golfing.

0:49:46
And they're all, yeah, of course. And they would close lots of deals while golfing. Now, back then in the 50s, in New York City, or in New York, probably the East Coast, a lot of the golf courses wouldn't, they would not let Jews come to the golf course. It was just, it was just racist. They're just like, nope, Jews can't go. But the guys in the office were just being normal. They're like, oh, hey, this is how you do business. You know, you like hang out with the client, take them to dinner and drinks, and then you go to the golf course, and then you close deals. So they just did it. And then they all got ahead and then he just struggled. And they didn't even think about it. They're just all, they're like, oh, he's not doing so good. We're doing better. They closed the deals doing golf and he couldn't. And they liked him. They were like, yeah, they liked him. They're all good friends. He just couldn't get in. And then they were like, all, I don't know, they don't know why. They just were unaware. And then there's the disempowering that you do know. So if you, if you see yourself doing something that disempowers someone, You have to say, oh, I gotta stop. I Gotta do something different. I got a change Because if you do something that disempowers people and you are aware of it, then you then you have to do something You can't just say yeah, it's cool That would be definitely bad so My example for that was I was working at General Electric in their corporate headquarters and Fairville, Connecticut and it was it was really great and I was a technical architect I was hiring a lot of people I was like in charge of a very big system was directly connected, his boss was Gary Brusolari, who was the CTO, CIO of General Electric. So it was a very high position and I was hiring lots of people. And this one time we had this round where we had to get these programmers. And I was hiring four programmers just in this one round of we need these guys to do this thing. And so I would always check in with my boss. I did the hiring, you know, so I had someone tech them and I would interview them too and stuff like that. They all passed the tech, I interviewed them, they're all great. It was three guys and one girl. And so, you know, that was it. And I said, these three passed, I'm gonna hire them to my boss. And he's like, great. And he's like, cool, cool, looks at the resumes, and looks at the girl. And he goes, yeah, so, he's all, see what you can do about the rate on this one. It's just automatic. And I was all, gotcha. I was like, no problem, Mike, you got it. But, like, just an automatic thing. He's all, cool guy, cool guy, cool guy, and then he's all, girl's name, and he's like, see what you can do about the rate on this one. Just automatic comes from him. And so the thing is, like, he knows what he's doing. It's just that it's a knee jerk. So I was like, cool. So he gave me the thumbs up to hire them. And he's like, you know, see what you can do on the rate. I was like, okay. So I got on the call with her and I told, you know, I was like, I told the recruiter, I want to talk to her directly. And he's like, okay. So I'm like, I was like, so I noticed on your resume, here's a, between your last job and this one, I mean, you got all the skills, totally past the tech, but there's like six months of space. So what's that about? And she's like, yeah, I was doing really good, but I wanted to learn the next technology. So I went to a tech class and I spent six months learning the next technology, the stuff that we needed. And then I was like, oh, all right. So how much does that cost? And she's like, yeah, that was like $6,000. And you spent like six months. I was like, she's like, yeah I'm like, so you probably really need to come kind of get a job to kind of like make up for that She's all yeah, like she's all yeah. I took time off. I spent money. I Invested and I do want to make up for that. I'm like, yeah, so you probably You probably this is a big deal to you, right?" She's all, yeah. And I'm like, uh, do you have any other prospects? She's all, uh, not, not right now. I'm interviewing. And I was like, oh, but, but, but if this came through, this would be a big deal. She's all, yeah, I really want this. I was like, uh, notice that you're, um, asking for a 75 an hour. And she's all, she's all, but I'm flexible. I'm like, oh good, I'm glad to hear that. So I knew the budget. I was like, because we could pay 95.

0:55:25
Totally cracked me up.

0:55:26
And then my boss, when I submitted it to him, he's like, she's more expensive than everyone else. And I was like, you told me to work on the budget. I was like, whoa, we almost lost her. Ooh, what a negotiator.

0:55:49
Cracked me up. But that's what happens in the world.

0:55:51
Like his knee jerk reaction is just like, oh, oh, this one, pay less. And I'm like, oh, yeah. That's like telling me you're going to join the Marines. I'll join the Marines from the sky. I don't know, somewhere else.

0:56:12
I'll be somewhere else.

0:56:13
So anyway, you have to look at where you are disempowering to people. Because if you are disempowering to people, you create tremendous harm. Everyone who comes across you, you should be empowering them. In yoga, we always practice this thing called win-win. We win, we do great. And also anyone who comes across as our partners, our customers also win. Win, win. You can't just get over on someone

0:56:53
because you're more powerful than them.

0:56:56
You can't just say, I'm more powerful than you and so I'm gonna get what I want. You know, it's like if there's a pile of cash and there's you and another guy, you could say, what, let's share it. Or you could just fight over it. Get as much as you can. We say, let's have a win-win. A lot of people coming from self will just say, I want to get as much as I can no matter what, even if I have to push someone down.

0:57:30
But we don't do that.

0:57:31
There was one time where there was a gal who had some problem with her car. She took it to a mechanic. The mechanic is all, oh, you know what? Your car could explode and you'll die. And your car, this and that. And if you do this right, then you have better gas mileage and everything's going to be better. And so, she comes back with this proposal of spending $8,000 on the car to fix it. And then I was like, that's weird. I don't know if I'd believe that. So I go to my mechanic, who I know, he's a Zen master, looks under the hood. And then my mechanic says, you just need like $800 worth of work and it'll be fine. But this happens a lot. People are like, if I can get power over you, if I can, because I'm strong and I know more and I can get energy, power, money from you, they'll do it. That's terrible, that's harmful. So we don't try to do that in business. If we're gonna get a lot of money in business, we don't wanna just say, I'm ripping them off. We wanna say, I'm giving you a fair deal and I want you to win. I'm gonna win but I want you to win too. A lot of times when you're a computer programmer a lot of you guys make a great living but you are making multiple million dollar systems for those big companies that you work for. So when you look at being harmless, you have to understand the most important thing is control. If there's that pile of money and you could push someone away and take it all, you don't do that just because you can push them away. You say, let's be fair, right? Just because you're strong doesn't mean that you can get everything that you want. You have to, if you're strong, if you're really powerful, you have to say, I have to have control. I have to say, let me not over exert my power. I have to have control. This in martial arts. In martial arts, if you're sparring and fighting, to develop yourself and to develop the other students, we don't, you know, go in and knock someone out. We don't give it our all. We actually develop our power by not, by developing power by not develop power, attention, sensitivity, and awareness through control.

1:00:29
And control is powerful.

1:00:32
Harmlessness is powerful. Like wu-wei dou is like the most harmless practice, but it is the most powerful. in Ireland, at that time, I think 100% of the land was owned by 11% of these great landlords. And they had farmers and businesses and all sorts of things happening on their lands and they had to pay them rent. And then there was this one landlord who was like, hmm, that business and that farm and this thing and that thing are doing really well. And if I evict the owners, the farmers, the business owners, I could just run them myself and make all the money. So he did that. He like found some way, some little legal loophole, and he evicted 11 farmers and business owners. He convicted 11 farmers and business owners and just because they couldn't be there, it was his and he was making all the money. And everyone in Ireland hated his guts for doing that. So there was a lot of people who were like, let's raise arms and fight him. But he had some military connections and they were like, we're going to lose. Absolutely. So then they all said, you know what? Everyone else, we're not going to do business with this guy. This big guy who owns 10 percent of the country, we're not going to do business with him. And we're just going to do and it hurt everybody because not doing business with someone means that you get hurt as well. But they said, he did something that we disagree with so much, we're not going to do business. And so they held back all this business from him, and he got hurt a lot. And he was like, oh, yikes. And so he eventually said, okay, okay, I'll let all those guys come back, have their businesses, their farms, and then if you can do normal commerce, then I'm going to be better off." And so then they won. So this landlord, his name was Charles Boycott. His name became a theme of how to harmlessly deal with someone who's doing something wrong, where a greater unity can say, we're going to win by harmlessness. This is called boycotting. Now, you guys know Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream? So, they're from Vermont, right? So there's this movement called Vermonters Against Palestinian Occupation by Israel. Just, you know, small name. These people in Vermont were against the Israelis messing with the Palestinians. And then they said, hey, Ben and Jerry's, why are you selling Ben and Jerry's ice cream in Israel, in the Gaza Strip? And then Ben and Jerry's, and so they said, we're going to boycott you until you stop. And they boycotted them. And then Ben and Jerry's was like, okay, okay, we're not going to sell Ben and Jerry's ice cream in the Gaza Strip, because that's an area of contention. And then they were like, yeah, we won. And then they said, now don't sell any Ben and Jerry's throughout the rest of Israel until the Palestinians have their own state. And the Ben and Jerry's was like, oh, it's just too much. But I was like, oh, you know what? I agree. Let's do it. So I was like, our whole sangha, we are going to boycott Ben and Jerry's until Israel gives Palestine their own state, and we're going to boycott Ben and Jerry's every Monday at 6pm. 6 to 8. This is just a joke. But this Ben and Jerry's boycott of the Vermont people is a real thing. So there's a way to be harmless and powerful. Wu Wei Dao is powerful, Jiu Jitsu is powerful. It's harmless ways of ending conflict. Now, the greatest way that people cause harm is through ignorance. What you're unaware of. You're a bull in a china shop.

1:05:42
You're like, people go,

1:05:43
ouch, this hurt me, this hurt me, this hurt me. And you're like, I don't even know why I did that. So what we have to do is we have to increase our awareness so that we go, oh, I have to be more careful of something I never knew about before. I wasn't aware of it. And the only way to increase awareness, well there's lots of ways, you can look, you can be aware, which a lot of people don't do, but the greatest way is a Buddhist secret, a Buddhist teaching, a secret of life, it's called leading with love. So When you go into a situation where you have love, your awareness grows and you say, oh, I'm more aware of things than I was before. And my example of that is like, let's say, a new mother. So, a new mother all of a sudden has this baby that she loves. Now, as that baby grows, she has cares and concerns about that baby that she never had for herself, she never worried about, but she starts to say, because I love this baby, I have cares and concerns way beyond what I used to have. The awareness grows. As the baby gets a little older, it's like, you know, the electric outlets, you have to put those little plugs in, right?

1:07:13
Right?

1:07:14
And before she's like, there's electric outlets and I don't care. Why should I care about them? But then she loves her baby. She goes, oh, I need to close those. And lots of little things. Like I need to put a little thing on the stairs to block the baby from falling down the stairs. Right? Baby's crawling around. If he gets on the stairs, doesn't know jujitsu, you know, might hurt itself. So, leading with love means that if I love my baby, I look at everything differently. Everything that can be a danger, not to me, I would have never thought a second thought about certain things. But once I love my baby, I look at everything and say, well, my baby, that could follow my baby, so I'll do something. It's like you don't have on the table, you get rid of the tablecloth because the baby could pull the tablecloth and a toaster could fall on its head. You know, all sorts of things. You start to look at things completely different because you love your baby. Your awareness expands.

1:08:16
So this is called leading with love.

1:08:18
So anytime that you're dealing with people, If you lead with love, you will see a bigger picture, and you will be less harmful. And you'll say, whoa, there's something that someone's bothered by, but I love them. And you say, then I can change, because now I understand. So this is the Buddhist secret to ahimsa. So I'd like to sit with you for one last song and we're going to focus again on the heart and in this song we're going to experience ahimsa. Now the thing that creates harm is thought. Thought, like in a peaceful state of meditation, you're all bright. And then thought just screws it all up. So in meditation, oftentimes we're all, oh, thought, no, thought, I don't like thought, so I'm going to fight thought. Okay, so here's what I'm going to let you do.

1:09:36
Let thought.

1:09:37
Don't fight thought.

1:09:39
If thought comes, let it. Don't fight it. And that's harmless. That's ahimsa.

1:09:46
You're not fighting.

1:09:47
You know, because just realistically, when you meditate, thoughts come. You just got to let them go. And if you fight them, if you have a reaction to them, then they stay, it creates a karma. So we're going to just sit, and hopefully you have no thought. But if thoughts come, then be harmless to the thought. Let it come, and just focus on your chakra, and then let it go. But don't fight it. Don't try to concentrate too much. Just, this is a moment to just be. Just being is harmless. So we're going to have a soft focus on the heart chakra. We'll sit for one song, and I want you to just be. If a thought comes up, don't fight it. Let it go. But if it comes up, don't judge it. Let it be. That and this is the practice of harmlessness. Okay, let's begin.

1:11:05
So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so So So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so you So this is my teaching on harmlessness.

1:15:50
So one time Buddha was teaching his monks and there were some visiting Brahmins going, what's going on with this Buddha? And they're like, I don't know if I like him because we already have our own thing. And Buddha took one of his monks and he screamed at him, yelled at him, totally made him feel like an idiot, and just screamed and yelled at him like horrifically. And the guy's all totally upset, all confused and And then this Brahmin goes, Buddha, you're terrible. You just said the most horrible things to this guy. You were mean to him and all this terrible stuff. And Buddha's all like, Oh yeah, I was showing him the way beyond the self. And then the guy's like, but it's terrible. Like he felt bad.

1:16:41
And Buddha's like,

1:16:42
It's like if you got something stuck in your teeth and it always hurts. You're like, oh, there's something there. It always hurts.

1:16:47
There's always pain.

1:16:48
And Buddha's like, I poked that pain and pulled it out so that he could be free from it. And while he experienced it, it hurt a lot more than it usually did. But by me poking it, it gave him that chance to be free of it completely. So sometimes, if someone has an ego, an attachment, a desire, if you poke it and direct them and say, hey, this is the spiritual path. You can let go of this. Then they can pull it out and be free and go, wow. That really hurt. I knew it was there. But when you poked it, it hurt more, and so I decided to let go of it.

1:17:42
So that's what we call a wrathful teaching.

1:17:44
It hurts,

1:17:46
and it's difficult,

1:17:48
but it shows you the way out. And that's if you want that, because if you don't want that, then it just hurts. And you go, ah, it hurt more! Then you don't want to be free of it. You don't do the work to like say, oh, I've been disappointed to something that hurt and then I'm not going to pull it out, I'm going to leave it there. And then it just, it hurt more. So the wrathful teachings show you a difficult experience to point out where your ego is. And then it gives you the opportunity to say now I'm gonna let that go this too I will let go. It's like uh with Krishna um you know the great Krishna very very highly enlightened being um he says this is the Dharma. And if you go on the side of the Dharma, he's like, I will lift you up into enlightenment. But if you stay on the other side, there was a war, the Battle of Kurukshetra. And he's like, I will kill you if you're on the other side. So don't think enlightened people are nice. Enlightened people follow Dharma. If you want to be on their side, then you can go into a high place. But if you don't want to, they will kill you. Or they can send you into a whole bunch of loop of karma that you go through hell with for thousands of incarnations. If you say, wait a second, if I would do this, and be like, Krishna's on that side, I'm going to go on that side. I'm like, I know I have money or a family or something, but I'm going to follow Krishna. Because if I don't, then I'm not following the Dharma. There's not going to be enlightenment, there's just going to be suffering. There's one that I was talking to a lot of you about recently, Judge Judy. Okay, if you don't know Judge Judy, Google Judge Judy, watch Judge Judy. Judge Judy is an impeccable judge. She's been a judge for like 40 years. And she solves silly cases where people are mad at each other. And the thing is that she's super psychic. If you yell, like if you lie to her, she sees it and she'll yell at you. She kicks everyone's ass She's all like if you lie to her. She she psychically sees it and she kicks your ass and She's straight in the law and she is very strong and she says this is right and this is wrong and you're a liar and you're wrong and The thing about her is she kicks people's butts. So what I was talking with the Hungarians about is something I want to do in America. In Hungary, there's this TV show, it's the Judge Judy, but it's the Dr. Phil version. So in America, Dr. Phil is this really nice guy, he just makes you feel good, right? But there's this psychologist in Hungary who has got a TV show where he's like Judge Judy. He kicks your ass and then he resolves crap properly. So he'll beat the living crap out of you to soften you up. And then he goes, and here's the way. And then they go, whoa, mind blown. Anyway, I want to do that in America so bad. Like, because Americans love Judge Judy. And if there was a psychologist who said, you know what, you're an idiot, and just like beats you up and then shows you the way, it would be, it's wrathful. Judge Judy is wrathful, but she is on point with the law. And this guy in Hungary, he's wrathful, but he is on point with the truth. So I want to do that in America. I'm like, me and Bodhidharma, we're going to get a camera, we're going to find our Judge Judy of psychology somewhere, we're going to get a bunch of retards and say,

1:22:02
oh, there's a problem.

1:22:03
I mean, go-tards, sorry, I wanna be politically correct.

1:22:07
Go-tards.

1:22:07
And then we're just gonna shoot it and then we're gonna sell it to Netflix or something. I'm just kidding, but I love this idea,

1:22:15
this guy who's a, he's like the Dr. Phil,

1:22:17
but he's more like Judge Judy, so he gives you a hard time. You guys got to see Judge Judy if you don't know Judge Judy. It just cracks me up. Judge Judy's just like all... She absolutely... And this is cool to see. She sees the truth. She doesn't see lies. People lie to her all the time, and she sees the truth, and she kicks their butt and lays down the truth of the law. So that's kind of wrathful. And this psychology guy in Hungary, I'm like, oh yeah, we gotta do that in America. It's gonna be great. Americans love crap like that. That's my next yoga.

1:23:00
After I finish Zen at work, I'm moving on to that.

1:23:02
But I got a lot of Zen at work to do. Zen at work's going really well, by the way. Got a lot of good things to say about Zen at work. Anyway, kamsahamnida. Thank you so much. This is the Chinese way of bowing means I'm not going to punch you in the face. Yet. Thank is the Chinese way of bowing means I'm not going to punch you in the face. Yet. Thank you all very much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
