0:00:00
Hello, welcome. All right, we're going to begin with meditation. So sit up nice and straight. We're going to meditate for one song, Navel Chakra.

0:00:17
Let's begin. So So So So So so the the the so so so so Okay. Today I'd like to talk about Zen of Work. Zen of Work is doing your job, developing

0:02:17
your career, or building your business in a way that brings success and also peace of mind. Zen of Work teaches how to deal with the hardships of work, market pressures, and also how to deal with difficult bosses, coworkers, and customers in a balanced way. Zen of Work is finding spirit in your work and using your deeper resources to achieve greater personal happiness and career success. Then at work follows the Buddhist teachings of right livelihood. Right livelihood was Buddha's teachings of enlightenment through work. So it's a spiritual teaching that Buddha taught. It's in all of his records. And it's something that he taught monks and lay people. Now we often think about Buddha's teachings for Buddhist monks being the kind of pinnacle of Buddha's teachings. But Buddha's first two disciples were actually businessmen. So he was sitting under the Bodhi tree. He became enlightened and he got up and he was walking and then taking a retreat somewhere and then he came across these two merchants, Chapusa and Bahalika, that's it. And they came over to him and they saw something special about him, and they just offered him some food. And then he ate the food, and then he gave them the enlightened teachings of business, which he later formed into this thing called Right Livelihood. And he taught them the way to enlightenment through business. And they be- and then in that meeting, they were awakened and they took vows to be his disciples. And then they didn't become monks. They moved on and they became extremely successful businessmen. They would bring Buddha's teachings everywhere that they went. They would create temples and shrines, but they were Buddha's first two disciples, businessmen. And Buddha's first spiritual teaching was business. Very interesting. So we often think that spirituality is different than our work, but Buddha's first teaching was that our Now, when we are meditating, doing mindfulness, these practices might seem, you know, very monk-like, but they're very business-like. They're not separate. You know, the corporation is definitely a place where you can have a structure, a focus, where there can be a dharma of truth, a practice of meditation and mindfulness that comes together, that successful, like these two merchants. Now, when we are practicing Zen of work, it's not an ambiguous kind of new agey practice. It's not like one of those things where they're like, follow your intuition and your instinct always, unless you get a funny feeling that you shouldn't. And it's not one of those spacey ponderings. You're like, oh, consider, if you weren't trying to get anywhere, you'd already be there. You know, it's not like those ambiguous kind of funny things. It is actually grounded practice, focused practice. It's practice that actually gets real world results. So there was a study from the Journal of Occupational and Ecological Yeah, ecological medicine is a scientific study. Recently, and they were working with Dow Chemical Corporation. And they took 100 kind of managerial and executives and they said, all right, we're gonna take this group and half of them are gonna get into the meditation and mindfulness online class. The other half has to wait six months before they get into it. And let's see what happens with the difference. So what happened was, in six months, they were able to see that the employees who took this online meditation and mindfulness class, once a week, teaching them how to practice every day in their job, that they were able to decrease their stress. They would say their productivity went up about 23%. So these are not spacey practices. These are practices that actually matter. I mean, like, they're things that actually mean something to business. Now, the Zen of work has strong benefits from the practices that drive these types of results. And the first is that you have increased focus. So when you practice these things, all of a sudden you have heightened attention, heightened focus. You're able to look at your work and have a clearer mind. And then there's psychological detachment. This means that you can put down your work. You know, the thing is, if you're always working all the time, you have too much stress, but then when you can put down your work at the right times and focus on other things, it's something that creates a lot of balance. And then it leads to the next thing, which is called recovery. So everyone has to have recovery from work.

0:12:33
You work for, sometimes, you know,

0:12:34
if you have physical work, you work for a while, you need the body to recover. If you have mental work, you work for a while, you need the mind to recover. So there's enhanced recovery. So focus, detachment, and recovery are three powerful benefits of the practice of Zen work. Now, I remember, for me, during this pandemic, when everything needed to move on to Zoom, where everything is work from home for knowledge workers, things changed and a lot of people had a lot of overtime and stress, knowledge workers. This means that they're like, well I'm working from home but guess what, they all worked many more hours. And then it also created a lot more stress for them because it's a different dynamic, working from home, having your family around. So we have this brave new world of the pandemic work universe. And for me, I was able to work on a couple practices of Zen of work. And from that, my focus became stronger, which meant that I was more productive. And if I was more productive, then I could, importantly, do the detachment where I don't have to do more, and I can let go. And that way, your work doesn't bleed over into your life. Right? If you're working from home, and your work bleeds into your life, that means that even when you're at dinner with the family, you're thinking about work. So you have to let it go. And then that feeds recovery. And you can actually let go. This is the chronic problem of stress. You can't let go and it breaks you down. But you can let go, and once you do, all that Zoom meeting fatigue goes away. So, this is what, these are some benefits Drew Carey, the comedian, had a really good joke, and he said, what's that? You hate your job? You know, there's a support group for that. It's called Everybody. And the support group meets every day at the bar.

0:15:21
Oh, it's so sad.

0:15:23
Hate your job and deal with it at the bar. Oh, so, zen of work is learning to love your work. Love works. Zen of work is a good relationship with your work. And it's learning to deal with all the stresses that everybody has. Everybody has stresses. But in positive ways that uplift you instead of bringing you down, it actually is a catalyst

0:15:53
to bring you up.

0:15:54
You know, that was the deal with the Buddha. He was like, hey, everyone's getting sick and old and dying. What's the way out? Enlightenment. So hardship was a catalyst to Buddha's enlightenment. So the hardships in all of our work and our business is a catalyst to, here's a way that we can do something that elevates us. Yeah, all great successful people take opposition and hardship and they learn from it and they get better, stronger, brighter. So we learn in this wonderful school that our work is something we should love. Our work is something that we should not feel is a pressure that pushes us down, but it's something that lifts us up. Ultimately, the zen of work is finding satisfaction, and satisfaction financially and in your career, and there's also satisfaction spiritually and in your personal happiness in the world.

0:17:48
So, I mean, we can all look at the world and say,

0:17:51
does, you know, for career, if you're just career-driven, does just succeeding career in money matter? No, we've seen lots of examples of people who are totally miserable, even if they're billionaires. But at the same time, we can't say, well, well then I will go to an ashram and be a monk. That's not going to pay the mortgage. Like, those two things don't work in the modern world, but there is something that works, and it is Buddhist teachings of right livelihood for the modern age, which is Zen of work. Zen, peace, enlightenment in your work, which is this crazy environment, and the two things come into the same balance. really special with you, which is tell you about a great company, Salesforce. And Salesforce is the CRM company or the Salesforce company of this world. It's the biggest. Now, they're super successful and their CEO, Mark Meneoff, had a really powerful moment. He brought, he made the tallest building in San Francisco as his headquarters. And then he brought Chikkat Han, a Zen monk, a powerful, wonderful, and famous Zen monk to his headquarters. He brought him there and he showed him everything. And Thich Nhat Hanh said, there's so much space for wealth here, but where's the space for spirit? This is the teaching that I'm talking to you

0:19:56
about that balance.

0:19:57
And Marc Benioff listened and said, whoa, okay, I want to incorporate this. How do I do it? Now, on every single floor of the tallest building in San Francisco, now there's a meditation room because of Tik Tok Han sharing this balance And Mark Benioff says, I love it. I see so much more peace. Like, you know, in companies, there can be arguments and disagreements. And the CEO of this giant corporation says, it's more peaceful and there's more innovation. And for a CEO to see those two things come out of a meditation room, it's a big deal.

0:20:52
All right, now I'm gonna teach you the key,

0:20:55
fundamental practice of Zen, of work. It is meditation. Now, meditation is a very simple thing. It's not as hard as everybody thinks. Monks meditate.

0:21:06
No, everyone can meditate.

0:21:07
It's the easiest thing in the universe. Let's just do it together. And we're gonna do it like this. Four breaths. Four breaths from the abdomen. So focus on your abdomen. And instead of going like this,

0:21:31
go like this.

0:21:32
Breathe low. So we're just gonna do four abdominal breaths. Let's do it together. Close your eyes and just breathe deeply. So, I don't think that was too hard, but that is a really important practice. This is a practice we call meditation. That was meditation on breath, which is what Buddha taught. Breathing meditation, basic practice, focusing on breath. This is something that is very strong. Now, meditation is something that what you just learned, four breaths, is something that if you use it a few times a day in your work, it will decrease your stress and give you greater mental acuity so that you have stronger awareness and greater performance.

0:23:06
So this is something that I have to say,

0:23:09
it's a very simple thing, but I would say put it to the test.

0:23:17
Do it.

0:23:18
Do it in your work, but don't just do it once. I mean, you have to have consistency. Do it for 90 days and see what happens. Do it a few times a day for 90 days, and I guarantee it will totally transform your job experience, your business. So this is important. This is a foundational teaching of Zen of work. It's that you have some internal focus and that you work. And when you have a balance inside, and just from breath, from four breaths, a few times a day, any time that you get stuck, any time that you get a little bit flustered, or just any time that you have a little break, a few times a day, if you do this little breathing exercise, and if you do it consistently, you will notice that your stress comes down, that your productivity comes up, which is the basic practice. And I have to say that if you go to zenofwork.com, you're gonna find meditations, introduction to meditations, and even a meditation bootcamp that teaches you everything about meditation.

0:24:43
And these are the ways,

0:24:45
these are the fundamental ways that you learn, but there's many other classes, but you've got to learn your meditation and mindfulness, and there's many other considerations in there. So I would say Zen of work is a way for you to learn powerful techniques that make you successful in your heart. And this is something that we offer. But definitely the first step is continuing meditation.

0:25:32
Okay, thank you.

0:25:41
So, that was my example of what I want to do with Zen of Work stage. You guys probably noticed for the past six months or so that we talked about yoga, yoga, yoga. But we've been talking about yoga, yoga, yoga to people who are in our sangha who are yogis. So this is a Buddha dojo. But this, what we're talking about now, Zen of work, is where we want to reach out to the world, the world and say, how can I help you? As a Buddhist beginner, a white belt in a great school, as a Bodon in a great school, as a Shodan, a black belt in a great school, or as an Arhat, a master in a great school, How can we all together help our world? And one of the greatest teachings of our school, because there's others, but we're just going to really choose this one. It's a big one for all of us that a lot of people in this school have had recognition of, is that we can help with career. Right livelihood. The practice of job, work, career, business that creates a money. It's a big discipline. Not that you have to have it to be disciplined, but that in our school it's a big deal. In karate school it's a big deal to do a gyaku zuki. But in Judo, they don't have that at all. But we're just in karate. So just, everyone go like this. This is our mudra in our school. Anyway, so, this is a way of self-forgiving. Upaya, that means, you know, skillful means. Now I'll dress up like this as a way of skillful means, Upaya, because I want to be able to reach in this conversation, I want to be able to reach not people who are like, oh, I like all enlightenment and magic for things.

0:28:53
Like space out Californians, they're all like, yeah, man.

0:28:55
Whoa.

0:28:56
I really like what you said.

0:28:58
Yeah, yeah, yeah. None of that.

0:29:01
I want to be able to reach regular knowledge workers in America and the world. If America, if we can address it in America, it will help the world. There's so many knowledge workers who have suffering right now. They're working from home. They're dealing with their families and stuff like that. They're having a lot of stress. And even before the pandemic, there's all sorts of things where people are stressful in America. If we can say, we're American Buddhists, we know yoga to enhance our careers, but also then how do we help? Because a lot of us have taken yoga up. How has it made me money? Which is a big focus. But then how can you help other people? How can you help your community of business? You can have a profound help. And it's all a spiritual second attention, but it's also a first attention. So that's what I'm interested in. If we are, and we are, true yogis, and even if we get 10% of the yoga, yogi experience, we don't have to be masters, we can share that. We can share something different that actually creates peace. You know, 90% of people in America are just stressed and struggling in their jobs, even if they have good jobs. 10% super happy, they're just fine, everything's balanced, but 90% trouble. So how do we, how can we as Buddhists in this country who are yogis, how can we help? Because we can. Because we can deal with our own career success and even our struggle to get even higher, we can deal with that in a way that is enlightened, elevated, breaks free from bonds, gets out of karma. Yeah, no, no, this is all for it. So I mean, this is what we wanna bring. Our strongest yogis, our shodhans, our bodhans, and then even new students, we wanna be able to bring outside of our sangha, zen of work. So, zen of work is a new idea. It's moving on from Buddha Dojo. Buddha Dojo was, let's increase our Sangha. And this is like, oh, no, no, no, let's teach other people. They don't have to be in our Sangha. There's so many other people that can benefit from these practices that we do. And let's make it for them. Let's offer it to them in an accessible way. It's introduction and beginning teachings, no more than that, but those are so powerful teachings.

0:32:54
Introduction and beginning teachings,

0:32:56
but for the world, right? Now, if you want to do bigger teachings than that, then you would have to be in the school, but I mean, everybody remember your beginning teachings, really beautiful, really strong. Remember your beginning intermediate teachings, strong, discipline, intense. And also, you made a lot out of it, we're able to use those things to get higher. So that's what we want to teach people. If people need to move on before that we'll kind of figure them out. Come on into the dojo. The den of work is really for the world. If we're yogis, Buddhist yogis, then why can't we share these blessings that have empowered us and brought us talents, right? We should. And that's why I'm dressed like this today. This is why I'm dressed like this. Because I'm trying to make my deep spiritual teachings of yoga and enlightenment accessible through this idea. Zen at work is an idea. And if I sit here and wear Buddhist monk robes or something like that, people go, oh, I don't know, that guy doesn't, he looks different. I mean, I always look different,

0:34:30
but he's not dressed like me.

0:34:32
So I don't know if I can, so this is why I think this is important.

0:34:38
The way that you dress is the way

0:34:39
that you can connect with people. I remember I was in, I was teaching for a while, a year and a half I think, in Munich. And in Munich, I wore my monk's robes. And then they go, oh, yeah, this guy's totally a monk, because I'm bald, and I'm wearing robes. And they were like, cool. And they loved it. And I had lots of students who kept coming every time. And they were like, this is great. And I'm like, how about you guys do something? And they were like, no. You guys were like, we love everything you say, but everything that you say is that book.

0:35:28
And we don't look like that.

0:35:29
And I was like, oh, I thought that, you know, how I normally dress is kind of an Asian style, so I'm like, and this is who I am, but for some people they say, well, I don't look like that, and I don't dress like that, so it doesn't work for me.

0:35:49
I don't understand, it can't be me,

0:35:51
because I don't see myself in it. So wear a jacket, wear a shirt. A tie might be too much. I mean, we're not living in like the past. It might look too much, so I'm like, I'll chill it out. But this is an important thing. We're going to take our best from everything that we've gained from and learned and bring that to Zen of Work. So I've introduced Zen of Work already, but now I'm, um, I'm covering it and I was like, you know what? Zen of Work. Let's just do it, see what happens. You gotta build something, and isn't it wonderful? So the way that you dress is really important. I'm totally glad that it's students only now. We're gonna take that little teaching and we're gonna make that one of the teachings that's available. Yeah, yeah. That teaching is something that we want to actually eventually create as the introduction to Zen of Work, which would be to worldwide.

0:37:21
Yeah.

0:37:22
And so what we're going to do is we're going to have a lot of showdowns are going to start, I'm going to ask them to start working on what do you, what's your, your showdowns are great successful yogis. What have you learned? How can you share that worldwide? So this is something that we're going to go through, you know, probably the next six months, which is going to be. What is it that we've learned in our yoga that we can share with others. And there's a big need for that. You know, if everyone, if there was a big need for online martial arts classes, we could do that too. But there's a lot of little dojos. big recognition that many people need some way of working better in America, relieving stress. There's so much difficulty. There's a cultural conditioning in the West, and it that is unbalanced with work and America really kind of exemplifies it. So we want to be able to in our little group here find all the places where the teachings of the Dharma have helped us in our career and created spiritual awareness for us and balance. And we want to share that and we have to dress the right part.

0:39:19
That's why I'm dressed like this today. It's ridiculous, I know.

0:39:21
So, grandpa died. This is a joke, okay. Grandpa died. Grandpa died. And then his family came to the funeral service early and they were setting everything up, bringing the flowers, and then they go to the, you know, it was an open coffin, really important, and then they go, hey, well, grandpa's wearing a t-shirt and jeans. And then they're all, yeah, they, you know, that's what he was wearing when he died. But grandpa said in his will that he wants to be buried in a tuxedo, a black tuxedo. And then the mortuary, they're like, whoa, we don't know what to do. And in 10 minutes, everyone's going to come in and say, this great old fella, we went to see him, and he's wearing this t-shirt that says, Beer and More, Taco Tuesdays. Or, that's a horrible idea, what time do we start? Something like that, right? And they're like, oh my god, our respective grandfather, we cannot have him buried in that. And then they undertake that. Says, don't worry, I'll take care of it. You know what? There's a guy backstage who's going to get buried later, it's going to be a closed coffin. He's got a black suit on. He's got a tuxedo.

0:41:05
I'm going to switch it.

0:41:06
They're all, really?

0:41:07
Do it for free.

0:41:08
All right, well, you know, seven minutes later, grandpa has a tuxedo. Open, everyone comes, goes, oh, you were such a nice guy, boom.

0:41:24
And then, often varied, service is over,

0:41:27
and then the family says, thank you so much, but how did you take the clothes off and change it so fast? And he's like, oh, I didn't do any of that. I could do it in a few minutes just because I switched the heads. So, this is how much clothing matters. But it's also like, it's also like a legal desk, right?

0:42:02
Right?

0:42:02
Legal desk. Every time they get together in meetings, like, they have a very formal attire. Every time they get together, they're in lawsuits. Yeah. Okay. So, we're going to have Shodan's teaching probably frequently, maybe a couple times a month, because I'm going to encourage them to. And I would like, this is open for all Sangha, all worldwide Sangha, and I'd like you to observe these teachings. These teachings are going to be growing and changing and and evolving, and things like that, right? So, but come to them. I would like to encourage you, dress well. Come to a teaching. These teachings are gonna be short. Like I'm gonna say, look, just a 15 minute long teaching. I hope my teaching was less than 15 minutes. Nope, okay, I never do it. I can't teach under an hour. I used to teach four hours. Okay, but I want to really get our teachings down to like 15 minute teachings. Meditation in the beginning, just for us, and then we get a teaching on business. And it's going to be a very succinct teaching. But I want everyone who comes to the teaching to dress up. It brings such different attention. If you just like are in bed, you click on this thing on the phone, you are not following the dharma of the teaching. I would say that your attire, it's like if you show up in a dojo wearing pajamas, you're not going to do karate very well. Even if you follow everything, I guarantee you won't do karate very well. It's once you put on the clothes. If that's the attire of the dojo, the school, the business, or the uniform. Once you put that on, then you are tonale locked in and you can learn it. But if you don't do that, you're out of there. Don't even show up. You show up into the army and you're like wearing pajamas, don't even show up. You show up into a dojo wearing pajamas, don't even show up. Or a Buddhist monastery wearing pajamas, don't even show up, quit. Don't even show up, please, just don't. But if you're gonna show up, then show up right. Follow the tone out. You should look as good as the teacher. It's only 15 minutes. Half of it is getting dressed. Right? No, but bring your best. And then you can learn this yoga. But if you don't bring your tone out up to that level, then forget it. I used to have this sensei in New York, it was August and everyone was kind of smelly after three days. And he's like, you guys aren't washing your gi. He's like, after every class, go home, take a shower, soap up in your gi. And he said, and then whether it's dry or not, come the next day. We came with damp geese, but it wasn't smelly anymore. So whatever your reasons are, forget it. If you want to come to these classes, dress up. This is a very important practice. And then the teachers will dress up. We'll dress up in this. this, you know, maybe we're beyond the age where you need to wear a tie, but dress well. Put on a jacket, a collared shirt, a scarf, I don't know, whatever, stuff. Dress well. Take some pride in how you bring yourself across, or, you know, you might not think you're bringing yourself across, but if you are connecting to this teaching, you are bringing yourself into this community. Bring your best. And that's good. So, I've been talking about the yoga. Yoga in our school, job yoga, for a long time, it's been months and months and months and months, where I'm like, this is important, do yoga. This is important. Do yoga. And now I'm saying, I'm bringing it to the next level. It's not even you. It's not even for you anymore. It's for what we can do for others. There's a higher ideal. It's what we can do for others, for the world. If we're strong yogis, or, and this is a call to be strong, because now we need to do it for others. So, be a great yogi. Dress well. Now we're bringing this into a different tonal, a different way. unfoldments of truth. It looks different, but it's great. And look, it helps others. So I want to say thank you, and I'm going to say thank you to the whole Sangha, and then we're going to take a ten minute break, and then I'll come back and then I'm going to talk to Bodons and Chordons. then we're going to take a ten minute break, and then I'll come back and then I'm going to talk to Bodons and Chordons. Thank you all so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
