0:00:00
All right, everyone, welcome. We're going to begin with meditation. We're going to sit for one song and we'll focus on the heart. Okay, sit up nice and straight and let's begin.

0:00:24
So, So, So So so so So, So So, So, so So so you All right, wonderful. the place of refuge. And this is a very, very sacred place for the Hawaiian people. So we want to make sure that when we come here, we don't leave any garbage behind, that we're very respectful of the place. We come here with a sense of care and honoring the place,

0:09:14
that the power of the place opens for us.

0:09:16
Wonderful.

0:09:17
So tonight I'd like to talk about the three agreements of Buddhism.

0:09:23
For Buddhism to work, that means for it to bring you beyond the self, for you to be enlightened,

0:09:25
for it to liberate you from suffering, you have to make three agreements, then Buddhism doesn't work.

0:10:07
Buddhism is bust.

0:10:11
So agreements are very important. It's a deep covenant. And it's not like, you know, like pledging your allegiance to Buddhism or something like that. It is simply making an agreement. Now, it's a very important thing because if you miss this part and you don't make the agreement then nothing happens.

0:10:54
But when you make these agreements, these three agreements, then the pathway to enlightenment

0:10:59
opens.

0:11:03
So an agreement is not a contract, right? With terms and conditions and identification clauses or something, right? Because contracts can be limiting. Oh, you're under contract to do this.

0:11:23
Yeah.

0:11:23
So it's not a contract.

0:11:24
So this lawyer walks into a bar

0:11:28
and he's, you know, got a nice suit on,

0:11:31
goes right up to the bartender and the bartender says, can I get you a drink? And the lawyer says, yeah, I'll have a whiskey. And I'll tell you a joke. And then the bartender says, okay, here's your whiskey. And then the lawyer says, why did the chicken cross the road? And the bartender says, I don't know why. And then the lawyer says, to get to the other side. And the bartender doesn't think it's funny at all. And he's just like, okay, that was weird, that was lame. And then he says, all right, well, anyway, that'll be eight bucks for the whiskey. And he goes, no, no. He's like, we had a verbal contract. You know, you made an offer. I accepted it. I got a whiskey. And you got my joke

0:12:36
as your consideration.

0:12:38
And that's a

0:12:40
verbal law binding contract. And then the bartender is like, ah, this guy's a jerk and yeah he's like okay whatever I'm not gonna take it any further with this lawyer he might try to sue me or something and then the next week the lawyer comes back and the bartender sees him and says hey buddy I'm not gonna give you a drink I'm not you anything because I don't like what you did last time." And then this time, you know, the lawyer's dressed in like sweatpants and a t-shirt and he says, what? He's like, what are you talking about? And he's like, yeah, I really didn't like what you did last time, so I'm not going to serve you. And he says, I've never been here before. I'm literally from out of town. This is my first time here." And then the bartender is like, what? No way. You're that guy. He's like, what? No, this is the first time I've ever been here. And he's like, wow, you're just like a ringer. I mean, it's uncanny. It's like, you must have a double. And then the lawyer says, agreed. Make it a whiskey and I'll give you a joke. Contracts don't end up making sense or they could be binding you into something you don't want to get into. So an agreement is not a contract. An agreement is not a religious commandment. It's not a religious proclamation of what you must do to be spiritual or be saved or something. It's like, you know, Moses, right? Moses had the 20 commandments. And those were the rules of God. Right? The rules of God! You're gonna follow God's rules. And so Moses was like, yeah man, this is it. It's etched in stone.

0:15:10
And we follow it. And that's it.

0:15:13
So, you know, so Moses, Moses, you know, had his 20 commandments, but, you know, he had to walk way up a mountain to the burning bush to get the 20 commandments. And then on the way down, it was just really heavy. So he decided to drop 10 of them. Because mostly they were like all stuff for the future, but didn't make sense at the time so it was like yeah You know it's like that shall not do a tick-tock dance video. You know it's mostly like internet guidelines

0:15:49
So

0:15:51
You know okay, so Moses walks into a bar and

0:15:55
He goes over to one guy and he says,

0:16:04
thou shalt not kill.

0:16:06
Goes over to another guy and says,

0:16:08
thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife.

0:16:11
Thou shalt not steal.

0:16:12
And he goes through all the 10 things. Then everyone's like, oh wow, okay, got it. And then Moses says, okay, cool. Now the next, yeah, I'm gonna get drinks for all of you now. Everyone's all, yay, Moses. And then the bartender says, oh, wow, that was great, Moses, thanks. Thanks for ordering all of us around.

0:16:38
So, yeah, an agreement is not a commandment.

0:16:53
An agreement is not a vow.

0:16:54
So in Buddhism, they're like taking vows. They're like all the five precepts, the four tops, and they make a vow. They say, you know, the five precepts, like I won't kill, I won't drink, I won't do some kinky stuff, you know, stuff like that. And it's saying, this is a way to live my life in dharma. It's a vow.

0:17:29
But vows aren't, they don't make sense,

0:17:33
because they're not for real.

0:17:35
They're just like good ideas. So it's kind of like a new year's resolution. You're like, oh, I'm gonna exercise and eat healthy. And then like it lasts for a while and then you're like sitting there on the couch with like a bucket of Kentucky fried chicken. You're like, yeah, that was a good resolution. So, I mean, vows are better to be considered guidelines. Because even Buddha talked about how he would break the five precepts. and his, you know, happy novice young Padawan monk. And they're going from, you know, the monastery and they're going to a special meditation hermitage. And so they're just traveling together and they're walking along the mountain pass and then they see this yak and the yak somehow got this prayer flag and it's a special prayer flag written on it was an amazing spiritual teaching by some amazing enlightened teacher and then the Rinpoche says to the monk, go and get that prayer flag from that yak. And then the monk says, I took a vow not to steal, and that clearly belongs to the yak, and he's snacking on it and getting some satisfaction. So if I take it from him, it would make him, you know, you know, bothered. And then the master says, you idiot. But yeah, we'll chew on anything. But that has a special spiritual teaching. We can bring that back to the monastery and share enlightenment with all the other monks. And the monk goes over and he pulls the prayer flag away from the yak and then he brings it to the master. They read it and then the monk's like, wow, I'm really glad I didn't let that yak eat this amazing spiritual teaching. Wow, fantastic. Okay, then they keep going. her in a cave, you know, they're like, okay, let's sleep out here in the middle of the mountains in a cave somewhere. Okay, so just as they start getting down to go to sleep, a ferocious demon comes from the depths of the cave, and the demon comes out, it's coming And then the master is like, says to the young monk, quick, kill the demon. And then the young monk says, oh, but I've taken a solemn vow, not to take a life, not even the life of a demon. And then the master says, you idiot. If you don't kill that demon, it's gonna kill us. And then we won't be able to propagate the Dharma and share enlightenment with other people. And so this made some sense to the monk. So the monk leapt at the demon and took out his alms bowl and crushed the demon's head. And then afterwards he's like, well, like well yeah I did kill that demon but um yeah you know that's I see what you mean because now we can go on to our hermitage we can become all enlightened and we can go back and more enlightenment for everyone so okay I see what you mean master and on the next day they're very close to the hermitage but the master's like looking around he's like um is it over there or is it I know it's somewhere around here. And then they're walking, and they come around the corner on the mountain pass, and there's this beautiful woman.

0:22:08
And then the master says,

0:22:10
Hey monk, go to that young woman over there. And then the monk goes, Oh master, I have taken a solemn vow. And then the master says, Okay fine, I'll go ask for directions. Anyway, so you know, even Buddha was talking about this time where he's all like, yeah, I had to kill this motherfucker because he was against the Dharma. So I had to, I had to hit him in the face with an ax. I mean, it was a previous lifetime. He didn't, he didn't do that in that, that lifetime. But there was a lifetime where Buddha was on a boat and there was 500 good people on the boat and one crazy person who was going to sink the boat. And so Buddha hatcheted his face with an axe, like in like a Halloween movie or something. And then Buddha's like, that was the Dharma. He's like, I took a vow of death before dishonor. I mean, there's Dharma involved. So, vows are great. They're really cool things. You know like the Bodhisattva vow? You're like, I'm not going to become enlightened until every sentient being is enlightened. Sentient beings are endless. I vow that they all become enlightened before I become enlightened." So it's like, you know, it's like a really cool thing to say at like a New Year's Eve party when you've had like a couple glasses of champagne. And so, you know, it's not an agreement. An agreement is a matter of the heart, the spirit. It is a concrete determination in your heart to follow the Dharma presents itself, no matter how much you don't like it, no matter

0:24:33
how challenging it is, it is, I will follow the Dharma. That's an agreement. You make an agreement with the universe. You're saying, universe, I'm ready. I will follow the truth completely. And when you make that agreement, then you're on the pathway to enlightenment. But if it's always your ego saying, yeah, I don't like that, oh, I disagree with that,

0:25:21
oh, boo, boo, boo, boo,

0:25:23
then you didn't make an agreement.

0:25:24
You're not a serious spiritual practitioner. Because look at Milarepa, right? Milarepa, it's like, he made an agreement, like just in his heart, he's like, I want to follow the teachings. I go to a master, I'm going to follow the teachings. And then the master starts telling me to do silly things like build towers. And he does it and it's painful and over and over and again and again, it's all difficult. It's not what he wanted to get. He wanted to get all like some spiritual teachings, then he started doing like hard labor. And because he made that commitment, an agreement is a commitment to your enlightenment. Because he made that agreement, that commitment, he went through whatever he had to go through. And then he became massively, wonderfully enlightened. agreement. And that's the thing, he goes to this spiritual teacher and he's like, oh yeah, cool, tell me cool spiritual stuff, I want to hear spiritual stuff. And then note this spiritual teacher did, start building some crap. And so, because he had that commitment, even though the dharma presented itself in a completely different way than he thought it would be. He said, I'm going to do whatever I have to do. So you might have spiritual concepts that, oh, this is what I'm going to get. Well, if you have the commitment, no matter what it is, you will do it. This happened with the Hungarian Sangha. You know, I remember I went there a couple times and I was like, I'm accepting students. And there's like a hundred people said I'll be your student and then I said okay could I do a phone call with you guys from America and guess what you guys are selling my software and they were like what what I thought yep selling software and then the next day I had like a dozen students but they're all still there and they're all super strong. And I'm like, why waste your time with like idiot losers? The people that I wanted to work with, with the people who made that commitment,

0:27:48
I said, you can stay, I will accept you as a student. I'm an enlightened teacher. Are you for real? And if you are, then this is going to be the strongest thing. We're not just going to have a whole big pack of dummies. We're going to have the most committed people, and then that's something that we can build

0:28:12
a sangha on.

0:28:17
So an agreement is a commitment. And it's also accepting whatever it is. It's like, Milorapa, build some towers. Hungarian students, sell some software. And there was this one Rinpoche from, originally from Tibet and now Dharmasala, Rinpoche Norbu, and Rinpoche Norbu, you know, he's just meditating and having a good time. And, you know, like they had a movie night at his monastery. They're like, Hey, let's have a movie night. And then they would watch movies and they would mostly watch like martial arts movies, like Bruce Lee and stuff like that. But anyway, after a meditation retreat, he said, Whoa, movies have such an impact on me and all the monks and all the world. And he said, wouldn't it be cool if we made a really good movie about Buddha? And so he started to raise funds from the community. And this Rinpoche, he was a Buddhist since he was eight years old, and he was identified as a Rinpoche, a reincarnated master, and he's the head of a monastery. And then he goes to London, England to film school, and he learns all the things about making a movie, right? And then while he's there, he's kind of networking. And did you guys see that movie, The Little Buddha?

0:30:02
So, you know, Keanu Reeves as Buddha. Perfect.

0:30:07
The best.

0:30:09
And

0:30:11
so he while he's in film school, he became a consultant, the Buddhist consultant

0:30:20
on the enlightenment of Buddha for the movie,

0:30:26
The Little Buddha.

0:30:27
And so he became the consultant on that. So he really got into movies. And then after that, he made three movies of his own. Has anyone seen The Cup? It's his award-winning film. It's about Buddhist monks playing soccer. It's not Shaolin soccer, it's llama soccer. Anyway, it's a good movie, we should see it. Yeah, so the thing is that he saw a Dharma and said, this is a big deal. do this as dharma. And so even though he was, you know, in his role as a rinpoche, a monastic for so long, he went way outside of that and he did something that he saw it presented as a new dharma. So he said, I'm going to do that. So that's like, that's like the real deal. You don't just like stick to dogma. You see what arises and even it means you have to go to London, England and learn how to work with the movie photography, I don't know, things, cinematography, English cinematography. Then uh you do it, you know, you just when when the dharma unfolds if you have a commitment to the dharma however it presents itself you do it. So the first agreement is to work with your teacher, is to learn from your teacher. Remember the original karate kid? Um when Mr. Miyagi really decided that he's gonna teach Daniel-san um, it was

0:32:27
After they went to the Cobra Kai dojo and he's all hey, could you just lay off beating up my my friend here? And then they're all no man

0:32:35
We're gonna go and do a tournament, you know, and then he's like, oh I got to teach this kid karate And so after they got out of the Cobra Kai dojo I gotta teach this kid karate. And so after they got out of the Kaburakai dojo, he's like, Dinosaur, Dinosaur, come here. And then he's like, and he squats down. He's like, come down here. And they just squat, you know? And then he's like, all right, this is a important thing. And then Dinosaur's like, okay, yeah, what, what? He's like, all right, I teach, you learn, okay? And then Daniel Sands goes, yeah, that's what we used to do. But that is the first agreement of any inner art. If it's an inner art, you have to have a master who knows the art. And you have to say, I'm gonna you teach I will I will I will learn I will follow. That's the first agreement because the master knows a whole universe of things that you don't know. The master knows the whole world. I remember when I first met my enlightened master you know I had read a few spiritual books, I didn't know nothing. And then I saw my teacher and he just exposed the greatest light, the highest truths. Everything was so bright, brilliant, fun, wonderful, powerful, so much enlightened energy in everything, in every aspect of his teachings. And that's the real deal. That was like, wow, I want to learn every single thing I can from this teacher.

0:34:32
It's amazing.

0:34:36
Now, a teacher knows more. Now the ego could say, I know as much as any other teacher. They can match their wits with even an enlightened teacher. Unless you're dealing with Krishna, because Krishna will fuck you up.

0:34:57
Ha ha ha.

0:34:59
No he won't really.

0:35:02
Okay, so, the teacher knows way more than you. And if you just say, you know, I think I've read a book and so I know it's enough, then you're missing the point. This is what the self does. The self equals limitation, and a teacher is the way through, the open door,

0:35:25
the pathway to enlightenment,

0:35:27
beyond limitation, beyond suffering, beyond conditionality. So I remember one time, early on in the study when my teacher started getting me into karate and going to tournaments and stuff, I remember sitting there at a tournament watching, and you know, I was in it, but I was watching a part of it that I was not participating in, and I was sitting next to this guy. guy and he's you know he's sitting there he's this big fat American dude and he's wearing like a like a blue key top and red key bottom and he's all, yeah, so he's like, I'm a 10th degree black belt. I made up my own martial art. My name is Joe and I'm the grand master of Joe Kwon Do.

0:36:37
And I was like, oh, sure.

0:36:39
And he's just commenting on everything he's seeing in the martial arts going on in the tournament. And I was just like, oh, hello. I don't know anything about that. But he had like a lot of comments. He had a lot to say.

0:36:54
And then he's all, Oh yeah, I'm also, you know,

0:36:58
I'm a PhD in philosophy.

0:37:00
He's like, you know, like an honorary PhD from like the Metaphysics University of Los Altos. Of Daly City. Something like that, right? Anyway, so I was like, oh, you're a PhD, honorary PhD, and honorary grandmaster, got it, okay, cool. So anyway, he's just sitting there saying all this stuff, and he's all, yeah, when I teach my, it's like most of my students are like kids from like really molding their minds, teaching them philosophy and martial arts. I was like, wow, that's cool. Yeah, I would rather be like anywhere else, but in your dojo. I mean, just for a second, I just, I wasn't buying it, you know, because he was just, he didn't have a teacher and he was just into himself and he made up his own martial art. And he made up his grandmaster, 10th degree black belt in it.

0:38:07
And it's just, that was just funny and weird.

0:38:11
And like, I can't imagine what he's doing.

0:38:13
He's all, okay, kids, all right.

0:38:15
No, Nietzsche says, you're Superman. So now let's fly. Woo, yeah, stuff like that. Anyway, um, but you know, later on, you know, his martial arts career ended because the parents finally figured out he was totally unqualified. They were like, this guy's not some great master, he just enjoys kicking kids. Anyway, so a teacher, a true teacher, doesn't tell you what you want to hear. A true teacher kicks your ass and tells you exactly what you don't want to hear because the ego is like, oh tell me how wonderful I am, tell me how I could be very comfortable right now. A teacher doesn't do that. A teacher will kick your ass. A teacher will give you a hard time. A true teacher. You know, like some teacher who's like just wants to get a big following and make a lot of money, be really nice to people, they'll say, hey, yeah, you're cool, I like you a lot. You're doing the best and then you'll be like great I knew it oh it works perfect with my concept of self and then you'll be like oh ah miserable there's no enlightenment yeah so I mean I mean you you got to look at like the story of Milarapa these really intense experiences where the teacher kicks your ass gives you a super hard time and says this is what it takes if you want enlightenment. If you don't want enlightenment, don't get near a teacher. Go away from the teacher. Run! Run fast! Because a teacher, a Zen master is like a tiger. It's like, you don't approach a Zen master unless you're really strong. Because if you just like come with your ego hanging out, a Zen master will Krishna you. You'll be Krishnized. So, yeah, a teacher is super intense, but the teacher is absolutely opposite of your ego. And if you say, I agree, I accept the agreement, I'm making the agreement, then you could learn from a teacher and be enlightened and be elevated. And beyond anything that you can imagine as the self, the ego is the stupidest person I ever met, as I often say and a teacher will always say something you don't like, will always push your buttons, always you know mess with you because the ego is the stupidest person and the enlightened teacher is the opposite of that. So the stupid person's all but I thought I this and then the teacher's like no no i often describe a teacher the same way i would describe a dentist it's like your ego creates cavities it's like you're uh you're like um eating sugar you know yeah this is cool this is what i desire i'm attached to sugar and i'm also attached to not flossing.

0:42:29
Because I'm an idiot.

0:42:31
Yeah.

0:42:33
Um, hashtag floss. So, um, but, a teacher is like a dentist. They'll go in there and say, hey, you've got a cavity. And I'm going to fix it. And then you're like the dentist, you're like, no dentist, don't do it, it hurts. And then the dentist is like, well, in the long run, this is what is going to help. So it might hurt a little bit right now, but then you're going to have no tooth decay. And then you're going to learn better habits so that you don't eat a bunch of sugar,

0:43:15
that you floss.

0:43:17
Yeah, you better floss.

0:43:18
If you don't floss, do some social distancing anytime you get around me. Because when you don't floss,

0:43:25
things die between your teeth. You're like, oh, I ate a cabbage and a burger, and then that stuff dies in between your teeth, and it smells like the like black death so social distancing

0:43:45
i'm like i i cope it's fine just your breath is bad so floss floss

0:43:52
so we're having a good time here

0:43:56
It's a wonderful night. Beautiful. Magical. Yeah. So, a teacher, like an enlightened teacher, is not someone that is, they're not karma. They are dharma. They are the way beyond your karma and if you accept them if you agree to learn you will go beyond yourself but every time you resist the enlightened teacher you say I disagree you know whatever I can't handle it well handle it well anytime that you resist, if there's ego, that's your lesson. That's the thing to let go of. You can't just say, like, oh, you know, booty yelled at me. He's a jerk.

0:45:04
You're like, oh, booty yelled at me.

0:45:07
Let me meditate on that. Let me see, let me see that greater truth. And let me see how I can let go of the self and be instead of angry, sad, beat down, busted, funky, junky. You say how can I transcend this from that teaching and not be hurt and be elevated and be beyond the thing that creates so much suffering in my mind. That's what the teacher points out. That's what the teacher points out. I have this really great story that I've been telling for years. Right, so you know sometimes teachers are intense. So there was this one sensei, Famous because he had a karate battle with a bull. Like, he beat a bull in a fight. And so he's like, I beat a bull and now I'm moving to New York. I'm going to teach karate. He moves to New York, opens up this karate dojo. And karate was very interesting in, I think it was the 70s, like mid-70s. And everyone's like, oh wow, I saw Bruce Lee movie, now I want to go to karate and stuff. And then there was this one guy who shows up from Jersey, and he's like a regular New Yorker. He's like, oh hey, what's going on? Where do I get the pizza? to meet it like a new yorker and um he shows up at the dojo this is his first day you know puts his little like gi on he's all well i feel like weird and then uh he gets on the mat and he's like following you know like all the basic things and then uh sensei oyama great sensei he he's showing a technique.

0:47:16
And then this guy goes,

0:47:17
that would never work in Perth Amboy. That's a rough and tumble city in Jersey, by the way. Perth Amboy.

0:47:24
That would never work in Perth Amboy. That's like retarded.

0:47:28
And then Sensei Oyama says,

0:47:31
oh, it does work. And he's like, no man, that looks so stupid, that won't work. And then so, Oyama says, okay, come here. He's like, so if you punch at me, I will show you how it works. And then, and then this New Jersey kid, he tries to really punch it all of a sudden really fast. And then of course, Oyama blocks it. And then just to give him a little emphasis, he does the technique with a little bit of a hit you know and then this Jersey kid goes and then you know it oh yeah my does he says do not say fucking my and he beats the shit out of him. I think he hit him like two or three times, but like karate hits. So, you know, he's like, get him off the mat, get a bucket of water and clean the blood. This is, so this is always my story of, you can learn the hard way. This guy, I was like, probably after the bat, he didn't, you know, he learned not to say the F word on the mat. And that's a, that's an important lesson. And then his, he ended up being Oyama's, one of his top students. He ended up being a great student. He got beat.

0:49:18
But he, instead of just saying,

0:49:20
ouch, I got hurt,

0:49:21
he looked at what he did and said, wow, I was really a jerk.

0:49:26
I didn't know that,

0:49:28
because I'm from New Jersey, from Perth Amboy.

0:49:30
I know what's going to happen. But if I start to listen to this sensei, who, even though he gave me a really strong, painful correction, I see power there. And he made the agreement. It's like, even if you beat the shit out of me, I agree to learn. And sometimes that's how you learn. You have to like, you have to have the rascal teaching, which gives you a really hard time. And then that tells you that there's something for real. The plot thickens. There's something going on. If you have trouble in your mind, Yeah, so his name was Ernest Blizzard and he became a great top sensei. Oyama has lots of schools and he's one of the heads. So, teachers are great! Yay! But you have to, no matter what it is, some teachers are just really nice. You know, they're just all darling and like, oh hey, you know, practice some bhakti, like, like, love me and stuff like that. So there's all sorts of different types of teachers, but whatever teacher you come across, you have to respect that teacher. If you don't respect the teacher, you don't have to love the teacher, you don't have to have all this devotion for the teacher, you have to respect that teacher. Otherwise it doesn't work because to make the agreement, I will, you teach, I learn. That means that's respect and no matter what they say, they say build this thing, sell this software, whatever it is, you say okay I'll do it, whatever it is.

0:51:41
Wax on, wax off.

0:51:42
Okay, the second agreement

0:51:44
is you agree to change.

0:51:48
Now this is the opposite of what an ego wants to do. An ego wants everything to stay the same. They want to attach the universe and time and space and say, here's a portrait, see this picture, it is that way. This is it. Let's chisel it in stone, let's put it on the internet, it'll last forever, and bam! This is it. I don't want change. The ego doesn't want change. It doesn't want any change. It wants what it wants, it wants to fix to it. So you have to agree to let everything change. Everything change. And when you agree to let everything change, then the self changes. That constrictive energy of self that just takes all of this gorgeous universe and squeezes it into stupid thoughts and bad feelings. That's the ego. to let go and open and be free and let everything happen and to be vulnerable to life and eternity. So you have to agree to change.

0:53:38
You have to agree to change.

0:53:40
When you change,

0:53:42
it goes from having thoughts

0:53:44
to stopping thoughts. When you change, it goes from suffering to freedom from suffering. Change is the path of liberation. So you have to agree to change.

0:54:09
Change is powerful.

0:54:12
Change is powerful. When you fix to something, you're like, your little ego just for a sec. I want this and I'm not gonna let go That is the the weakest spiritually the weakest condition you're very very very very very stuck So change is the most

0:54:37
Powerful condition

0:54:39
You have to let Yourself change you have to agree for change. You can't just say, I want everything to be fixed. The ego is fixed. The self is fixed. The stories of self. It's all fixed. And enlightenment is letting go of all those karmas, all that personal history, being free in the moment, free in the moment to change. So change is powerful. So when we look at our spiritual practice, we have to observe that we're not just being fixated. We have to see that when we meditate, that you go into higher states of mind, you have higher spiritual experiences. A lot of people who meditate, not in this group, but a lot of people who meditate in the world, they get to like some chill state and they get a little comfortable and a little bit more peaceful. And then they're, they say, that is meditation. I have to get to that place. And then I get a little chill. But you can't just stop there. You have to keep going. You have to say, I'm going to change. Even if I had a good meditation, I'm not going to expect that the next time. I'm going to be completely open to see what happens. And then when you have that openness and that vulnerability, then you change, you shift, you grow.

0:56:38
So this is, yeah, very important.

0:56:40
Change is important.

0:56:42
So the third agreement is working together. So you must agree to work together. This is the third agreement of Buddhism. It's one of the keys of enlightenment on the Buddhist path.

0:57:09
You know, some people will just like sit out in a cave

0:57:11
and become enlightened, but in Buddhism, we don't do that. Like when Buddha started his school, his Sangha, he created a Sangha that lived together,

0:57:20
that worked together, that studied together,

0:57:22
that they lived their lives together. He didn't say, hey, there's tons of like yogis and stuff that just say, oh, I'm going to be spiritual, I'm going to go to a mountain, I'm going to go to a cave, I'm going to be out by myself, I'm going to go hermitage. But it was like, no, no, no, we live together. We work together. This is a very powerful teaching in Buddhism. It's called, you know, the third jewel of Buddhism is called the Sangha. The Buddha, the Dharma, the Sangha. These are the three jewels of Buddhism. It's a special thing. It's a structure that helps you become spiritually advanced. Yeah. But you know change is good too. You gotta change. You gotta keep growing. You're never gonna just get stuck. So like for example, I come back to it. So you know 50 Cent? Right? He's like open to change. So then he changed his name to $2.50. Because, you know, it's like inflation. Change.

0:58:59
Change is good.

0:59:04
When we're learning spirituality, we're not just learning it for the sake of adorning

0:59:10
ourselves with more information. Like oh, now I know this so I can intellectually talk about it. You know, wisdom on top of our Christmas tree. We, because then it's still a Christmas tree with a bunch of ornaments on it. We want to get rid of the tree all together. We want to get rid of the self.

1:00:05
Altogether.

1:00:08
So there was this one time where there was a Buddhist monk who had some insight, he was working really hard, and he learned how to walk on water. And he was walking on water, everyone thought he was cool. He's like, yeah, I'm cool, look, I can do a miracle and everyone's like yeah well it's amazing and then Buddha came over and then there's a whole bunch of people around he's like hey Buddha um let's go see there's that lake let's go walk out into the middle of a lake and have a conversation about enlightenment out there and Buddha goes yeah actually how about we um see that cloud up there let's go fly up to that cloud and we can talk there. And the guy goes, oh, oh, uh, I don't know how to fly. And the Buddha says, yeah, you're, you're useless. And he walks away. And the guy realized he's like, at first, he's like, oh, do I have to learn how to fly? But then he finally realized what Buddha was telling you know adorning yourself with information is is not enlightened that you have to be able to change out of even making yourself smart look good we're not just adding stuff to the self we're we're getting rid of the self it's like boxing day. It's like tomorrow's Christmas, the next day is boxing day. It's like, oh let's take all this garbage and put it out on the curb for vagrants to come over and like vultures to eat the body and the Himalayas. I died. Yeah. So, and change, change is important. And the way to change is to have earnest effort, to try really hard. Look at Milarepa, yeah, he's like, I tried really hard. When I first joined the study, I was very interested in enlightenment, but I was really bad at it. So when I was learning meditation, for the first six or seven years, I was horrible at meditation. And I never thought I would ever be able to stop that. I never thought ever that I would be able to be enlightened and I was just really, really bad at it. But I made the agreement to change and I just said I'm going to earnestly try and no self-attachment, no doubt, just try. So I earnestly tried and my meditation ended up working out pretty well. Also learning computer programming, I was terrible at it. I flunked out of the computer learning center and I was terrible at it and then I said, I'm selflessly just gonna try. I'll earnestly try. And then I became exceptional as a computer programmer and had a successful consulting business on Wall Street. So even if you look at yourself and say I'm bad, I'm stuck, it's never going to work out. Agree to change. Make that inner agreement to let yourself change. And then just work earnestly on your yoga and you will transform. You will not change into the thing that you can think of, you will transform spiritually.

1:04:24
Yeah. Change.

1:04:27
Good. Oh yeah, so working together. That's the third agreement. Yeah. So we work together. And when we work together, there's just a wonderful momentum. When we work together, Everyone's best ability inspires the other. It's like in the karate dojo. If I see someone with a good roundhouse kick, I'm going to be like, Ooh, I'm going to watch that. I'm going to try to do it like them. It's like we all inspire each other. Oh, that guy's got a good downward block. I see that he can do that in aspiring well. So I'm gonna look how he does that. Cool, that's really cool. You know, so we've learned this from each other. Just by being together, we become inspired by every single person's best effort. And it creates for us a lot of balance. When we're together as a group in a sangha, when we work together, we create balance. Like I remember when Apati was, you know, working and having a really hard time, it was because the yogis got together and they became a stronger unit. They talked, they worked things out, they figured things out, and it became better. They were able to succeed where if they weren't in a group, if they didn't work on working together, they wouldn't have. They would have failed. So when we work together, we can have a greater greater balance, but we also see that each of us has a blind spot or limitation and that when we work together, all of us together has a bigger power. We are greater than the sum of our parts. this Buddhist master, and he said, hey, on this one day, I want you guys to find me up on this hill somewhere. I'm going to be doing some super magical puja of enlightenment. And so come up there and find me. Now he said that to his three students. So one of his students couldn't see. The other one couldn't hear. And the other one couldn't smell. And so, you know, they're just sitting there in the ashram and then they're like,

1:07:19
oh, the day came.

1:07:20
And then they're like, okay.

1:07:22
So the one who couldn't hear but he could see said, I see the mountain. We have to go to it. And so he took them there. They got there. And then once they get to the mountain, he doesn't know what to do. But the one who could hear heard the master chanting and said, oh, follow me. Follow me this way. It's getting louder. It's getting louder. And then they they got there. So we are able to help each other out with the different views of enlightened. That's what makes being in a enlightened sangha so wonderful. Everyone is opening different views and everyone's got different blind spots and yet when we work together we have all the opportunity. But you might be asking, what happened to the monk who couldn't smell? Well, he didn't even join them because he was working on a special koan. What is the smell of one hand clapping? Stingy's head! Dun dun dun dun dun dun.

1:08:51
All right. All right, so, and there's one other aspect of working together, is that it never works. I mean, it works, but it never works. It's never perfect. There's always a flaw in a sangha. I remember there's this one time where Buddha went to, you know, visit this one region where he had a bunch of students and he got there and he's like, oh, you guys are jerks. And you guys are not practicing properly. You guys are like definitely messing up. And so Buddha just yelled at them and then left. He's like, you guys are jerks and I'm not even going to hang out here and teach you. And then they were like, Oh my God, because they were actually like hanging out with each other and being dysfunctional, getting mad at each other. And then Buddha came and pointed it out. And then he just said, I'm out of here. And then they're like, Oh my gosh, Buddha's like leaving us. And then they had to look at themselves and say, Whoa, we got to change things up. We can't, we can't keep doing this, Buddha's walking away from it. So in any spiritual community, in any Sangha, in any company, in any working together, it's everything is fluid and there's an inherent flaw in everything. And then that inherent flaw doesn't mean that it's bad. It actually is the driver of enlightened advancement. It's like in any group there's always change happening. There's always a problem, even if it's a little problem. But it is the reason, the way, the jewel of enlightenment to learn from that dissatisfaction, that unbalance, that problem, that hardship. The working together things means working, working on it, working together, trying to figure it out. There's never an end to it. And there's always a problem. But that's also perfect. Perfect.

1:11:08
So the three agreements bring you to what we call

1:11:13
the Buddha realms, the Trikaya.

1:11:15
The three agreements, when you make these agreements,

1:11:18
they immediately open to the enlightened realms of the Buddhas. The moment that you agree to learn from the teacher, it opens up the Dharmakaya, the clear light of reality. You can be enlightened. You can see enlightenment when you agree to work with your enlightened teacher. You can see enlightenment. It is right there. And when you agree to change, when you agree to just let go of the self and be vulnerable and see what happens in the universe and be open and be impeccable and selfless with whatever comes, then you enter the Sambhogakaya, this is the bliss realm, ecstasy. When you let yourself just change, you stop doing self-defense, you stop clinging, you stop attachment, you stop saying I'm just into whatever I'm into, and you say I'm open to change. That's where you enter into the ecstatic realm,

1:12:50
the Sambhogakaya.

1:12:51
And then you work together.

1:12:52
Working together, you say,

1:12:56
let's always work together. It is a spiritual discipline and it's a very special thing in Buddhism. It's a very beautiful, powerful structure structure that Buddha was into. That's something that we developed really well in our special ways here in the Asura school. But when you devote yourself to work together, you commit yourself to work together. And say, I'm not just going to work a little bit until I'm pissed off. I'm going all the way until we figure this out. Then when you do that, you enter into the Nirmanakaya. The Nirmanakaya is the creation of enlightened developments. When you work, you create something, you develop something. And it manifests, it's a manifestation. Out of nothing, there's a manifestation of enlightenment. This is Atreyi Kaya's. So I'd like to sit with you in silence, just for a few minutes and I'd like you to have a focus on the third eye and we're going to go into the agreements. I'd like you to reflect on the agreement to work together. And then we're going to just focus on the third eye. We're going to get to the the essence of this energy, which is the Trigaya, the Buddha realms. So sit up nice and straight, and we're just going to sit for a few minutes in silence with a focus on the third eye.

1:15:26
Thank you.

1:15:27
. Thank you... Thank you. All right, wonderful. Very beautiful. Isn't it nice? Or like, just the ocean waves here here in this beautiful place. Wonderful. So we're going to take a break now and then when we come back, we're going to have an announcement of some spiritual names and then we're going to have some additional teachings and we're going to like, you know, have a wonderful time. So let's

1:16:26
take a break for like 15 minutes and then we'll come back. We'll do the announcement

1:18:55
and then we'll continue with wonderful teachings. Thank you all so much.

1:18:59
Hello, hello. All right.

1:19:02
We've made it back safely from our break.

1:19:15
It's really nice. All right, so here's what we're gonna do.

1:19:18
There are a number of names that we're going to talk about, spiritual names, and I'm going to share some of them, and then there's probably a couple other people who will come up and share names as well. Now I want to tell you about spiritual names. So when do you get your karma changes. So, you're born with a given name, which is your karma name. And that's your legal name, that's your family name, that's your karma name. And then after a while, when you meditate, when you go through some spiritual stuff, you transcend that karmic name. You're not that karma and your dharma emerges. And then you get this spiritual name that is the dharma for you. So when I give people spiritual names, it is a powerful teaching of you are not your karma anymore. And this is the way for enlightenment for you. And a lot of the names are like very like descriptive of your essential spirit or sometimes they're a koan that challenges you to see things in a different way, but it is always, your spiritual name is always something that brings you from karma to dharma.

1:21:23
Now we have also arhants.

1:21:26
Arhants who, I gave them a spiritual name and it brought them from their karma name through dharma to enlightenment.

1:21:43
And then once they become enlightened, they can have their own insight about their enlightened

1:21:49
nature.

1:21:50
I don't give, I don't give Arhant spiritual names. They have blossomed. and they're like little butterflies flying around and landing on flowers. And they have their own insight. So like when an Arhan says, you know, I've transformed and I see that here's a higher Dharma, every single time that they told me, I'm like, absolutely, I see it too. It's just that they have their own agency.

1:22:29
You know, they're enlightened.

1:22:29
So I don't have to tell them, this is your spiritual name. I just listen to them and I say, wow, absolutely. I see all the time, every single Arhan, when they change their name, they're like, I have a vision, I've changed, I've transformed. And so that's really wonderful. So, you know, the enlightened ones of the school can find their own, like, new names. Happens for some, for some it doesn't. It doesn't have to, but it does happen for some. Some are hunts. Anyway, so, I want to share some names. I have to, like, go on my computer because there's a lot of names. All right.

1:23:19
All right, so

1:23:19
um Pema

1:23:22
so Pema you are in a very powerful Transcendent state and you're moving beyond even your wonderful karma To a higher spiritual karma it calls upon, you know, like past lives to a very very very high powerful past life and it also is a very powerful way forward in spirituality.

1:24:13
So Pama's name is Hikaru. Hikaru is a Japanese word. It means like illuminated radiance, like the aura of a Buddha.

1:24:32
Hikaru. Hikaru.

1:24:34
So, Tama's name is Hikaru.

1:24:37
Alright.

1:24:38
Alright, then I'm going to move on to, this is a good one, Paul.

1:24:46
Paul Michalski. Michalski? Something like that.

1:24:50
You know, the only Paul here. So, Paul, your spiritual name is Vishal. Vishal is a very strong name. It means like illustrious, great, and powerful. And this is just the perfect name for you. So Paul, you are now Vishal. And Vishal is a direction. And it is an empowerment. Something that uplifts you. It's a very, very wonderful, powerful name.

1:25:50
Why is it so bright? I don't know. Okay. Um. Sole.

1:26:02
Sole.

1:26:03
So, Sole from Iceland. Your spiritual name is Sunyata. Sunyata means emptiness. It's a very, very, very, very beautiful, powerful name. Emptiness.

1:26:34
Emptiness of all things. Emptiness of self. The complete void of being, but the fulfillment of eternity. And the next one is Christine. I think you're the only Christine. Christine, your spiritual name is Samadhi. And it is because of your experience. Because you went into Samadhi. And this is a very, very, very amazing, powerful thing. You've gone through a lot of hardships and difficulties in your life and in your mind. But, you know, very recently it's resolved in Samadhi. So this is a very, very powerful spiritual name because it is exactly your spiritual experience. So good for you. Alright, next is Chai. Chai, your spiritual name is Sumati. Sumati is a very, very powerful It's a name, um, and it's another name for Kalki. It's a powerful goddess name. Powerful, strong. So, Sumati. Woo! Good job, by the way. You did really well. And it's a big transformation, right? I mean, going from, you know, from the karma of your experience, I need you to understand that Kali is intense. So I want you to look into some pictures of Kali. Yeah, it's really good.

1:29:08
Cause this is a very powerful Dharma for you.

1:29:11
All right. Now we get to a good one.

1:29:15
James. James.

1:29:18
Oh my gosh.

1:29:18
So, speaking of James, Kenjin have been working on a real estate yoga temple. They're like, we will get old messed up houses and they create spiritual spaces. And they create temples. So, you know, you can call it flipping houses. But they make them into something beautiful with a vision. It's something special. So both Kenjin and James have succeeded in their yoga quota. They've made $10 million to get the advanced teachings. So this yoga goes to the advanced teachings.

1:30:38
They become Shodans tonight.

1:30:41
Yeah.

1:30:43
So James gets his spiritual name for sure tonight. And James, your spiritual name is Seva. And it's just the best karma yoga name, right? It means service. And we all care about Seva. It's something that we do. We just, we serve. We help. We share. We do our best for each other. So it is one of the best karma yoga names, Seva. Very nice, very good, Seva. All right, then the last one is, I don't know if she's here, but it's Francie. And what a name, Francie. We need to get rid of that. Now she's got a spiritual name and her spiritual name is Suda, which I keep thinking about, right? And Suda is purity. And it was really I was doing a teaching in the Bay Area and then afterwards we were in Tiburon, and a place where I would meditate many times, Black East Pasture. But I lived in Tiburon and that's where I had my first liberation. That's where I became enlightened. I had a little house in Tiburon in the most beautiful place. Such a great energy there, just a strong, amazing, wonderful place. And that's where I sat there and I went into Nirvana for the first time. And sitting out overlooking Richardson Bay, looking across to Belvedere Island from and from quarantine on, it's just a very magical, beautiful place. And so after meditating with the Bay Area Sangha, I took, I was like, oh, I got to show Adara this. She has to see it. This is the Dharma for her. So I said, Adara, come over here. She's like, yeah, I'm driving and I have like Francie with me. I was all, Francie! Okay, cool. And then Francie showed up and Francie was transformed from that experience. I was like, this is where I became enlightened. And it was actually an interesting thing because, I don't, I can't explain it. It's just, it's just magical. It was magical like crazy. And I will explain a little bit. So we parked and then there's a little walkway up like maybe 75 feet. And then when we turned to walk to exactly the place where I lived and where I became liberated, we turn around and we look at it and there's a buck like a deer with the horns and everything. Horns? Antlers. Sorry. Horns are for monkeys. Okay. Anyway, so I was like, whoa. And I lived on that island for a while. I never saw a deer there in my whole life. I was like, oh, I mean, for the two years I lived there. And I was like, whoa, dear. And so we turn around, we see it. And I said, that, that, that is a magical, auspicious sign. That's an omen. It's an omen of power, an omen of enlightenment. And then it looked at us, and we looked at it, and then eventually started walking towards it. And then, know what it did? It walked downstairs, right to where my house was, where I was enlightened. It just, it like walked down to the front door. And I was like, there's nowhere to go from there. Like, I know that place. It just walked down there and it just hung out at the door, I guess. So it was like a, maybe, yeah, 10 steps down. But then we didn't follow it

1:35:21
because I didn't want to scare it.

1:35:23
But it was very powerful.

1:35:25
So, yeah.

1:35:27
So, and Francie was there.

1:35:29
She got to be a part of that spiritual experience. That's why she got a very beautiful name, Suda. All right, so these are the names that I wanted to share with you. And now I'd like to call up any Arhants or Shodans who want to offer an insight and a name for anyone that you know or yourself.

1:36:04
Aloha. So this is Zimbabwe.

1:36:07
It's a little dark out here,

1:36:09
but I wanted to just share a little bit.

1:36:11
The cat's out of the bag because we already started talking about it, but Bodhi Woods, our spiritual community, went through a name change in this winter solstice transit. So the new name, formerly Bodhi Woods,

1:36:24
is now Bodhi Mandala.

1:36:27
Woo!

1:36:28
Fitting because, you know, we're like really hyped on mandalas right now. But, so what a Bodhi Mandala is, it's a Buddhist monastery where monks go to study and they strive towards Bodhi, which means enlightenment. It's very fitting for our Sangha. But there's also an aspect of it that really captured the essence of not only the place but also our Sangha. So Bodhi Mandala, it's a place where there's known to be Bodhisattvas and you can go and learn from the Bodhisattvas. And one thing that we reflected on a lot in the transit, you know, our intention when we came to Bodhi Woods, like, oh man, let's make it really nice because then Ajahn will come want to hang out there and like that'll bring enlightenment back there. And it did, just not in the way that So, Bodhi Mandala went through a very important transformation, and our song is going through the same transformation, where there's enlightenment appearing left and right. So it was fitting in the solstice transit and with the tonal of Bodhi Woods going up that it got a new name.

1:37:59
So that's Bodhi Mandala.

1:38:03
And with that, with powerful transits,

1:38:05
there are powerful shifts. So two other ones I'd like to announce tonight. Nyx, formerly Jing, one of our abbots, and an abbot from the very beginning, from when I started for the last year and a half, will be transitioning out from Bodhi Mandala in the solstice transit.

1:38:22
She's in Hungary right now. She says hi to everyone and waves. It was just her birthday a couple days ago. So she was hyped and watching Avatar. And, you know, I just want to take this time of powerful moment to really just commend the work that she served the ashram. When she came to what's now Bodhi Mandala, it was during quarantine. We couldn't meet inside so all of our meetings had to happen on the front lawn with the turkeys flying over us and so I said hey it'd be really awesome if you came here with me and made hanging out on the lawn fun and she said okay and she did that and much much more. So just to name a couple of things really transforming the martial arts experience and radically shifting the assemblage points and power for the people in the community, particularly the women. So very important to call out because it was fantastic, fantastic dharmic work. So she will be flying away from the Bodhi Mandala in the Winter Solstice Transit, but with any powerful transit, energy exits and new energy comes in. So I'd also like to announce that Sahaja will be stepping in to become a Bodhi Mandala Abbot. And now a bunch of you are like, who the hell is Sahaja?

1:39:50
So allow me to introduce Sahaja, formerly known as Ma'at, or formerly known as Asha, a lot of names here. So, Sahaja means to be born together with, arising together with, and it marks the transition from Ma'at, of holding together all these things,

1:40:19
harmony, balance, all of these things to a place of just being. Well, that is the Hachiman. Thank you. Hi everyone. I have been Shori. And that is Japanese for victory. So the energy of shori is enlightened victory. And it was perfect for my first spiritual name, and for which I'm very grateful to Ajahn. It addressed the context. So victory arises within a context. The context is a battle and the battle was with the ego, with the self, with difficulties in life and suffering and challenges and then there was victory and that victory was transcending all of them. And as time has passed the victory has settled, it is integrated and there's no more battle. So the energy of victory has become less of an immediate experience and has become more of a transitioning into how can this victory be shared with others. And so I was feeling over the last year that I was becoming less of a someone and more of a nothing. And there must be someone to be victorious. So that energy didn't quite fit as much. It felt like it was bound to something, bound to herself. And during the teachings on Wednesday, there was an aha moment where I realized that there is a word for nothing that exists to spark enlightenment in others. And that expanded my being and fell into alignment with the Dharma that is occurring. a form of nothing that exists to spark enlightenment in others. My name is Kowan. Nice to meet you. Anyone else? Raja is the MC. He'll be kicking us off.

1:43:05
Okay. Good evening, everyone. My name is Raja and I will be the MC for tonight. First I would like to connect to what Ajan mentioned, which is Oyama sensei, which is I think it's also called Kyokushinkai karate. So Oyama sensei is famous for demonstrating his knowledge in martial arts, and not by doing a does, which is beautiful and can be powerful, but he did sparring, continuous sparring. So once, I don't know if there's a video about it, there might be, but he fought 300 karate black belts in Japan. And I think the rules are something like 5 to 10 minute rounds with a 30 second break. And you can't go down in between, right? It's basically 30 seconds is two sips of water, right? That's what he got. But what's interesting is now one of his students, an Australian guy, when he was 18 years old, he was accepted as an uchidashi in Oyama's, I guess not ashram, but dojo. And recently, so now you can watch it on YouTube, he fought 100 black belts and he did a pretty awesome job. But he's fairly big, so even if you take Gene, Shiva and Bahiya and put them together, that kind of size a guy. So he's pretty strong, just a fun fact. And first, I want to begin with we will talk about some of the maybe most essential qualities that someone can have on the pathway to enlightenment which are very beneficial for our enlightenment. Like the teachings that Ajan shared and the story goes back to 2006-2007 I was visiting Ajan and I was a beginner and I always had to ask spiritual questions like you know I think we were in the bookstore or something and then I was like okay I have a question and I was like yeah what's your question and I was like so what is the most important thing to have on the pathway to enlightenment as a practitioner and he said the number one is purity. If you're pure that's amazing but you know if you don't have purity, the number two is humility. If you have humility, you know, it can get you there. And if you don't have, you know, humility or purity, then tenacity, so you know, the ability to work hard. And he pointed it out, you know, some students, you know, or many students, they have the ability to work hard and that get them to enlightenment. Immediately, I started worrying

1:46:02
and then he looked at my face and he was like,

1:46:04
don't worry, you have the third one. And I'm like, oh, thank you. So having said that, we will have our first speaker tonight, Marici, formerly known as Pavana. And she will speak about, what will she speak about? She will speak about the golden heart of humility. So Marici, please come to kick off the rest of the night.

1:46:37
Hello, is that the right volume? Okay.

1:46:41
Good evening and happy Solstice Transit. My name is Marichi. And tonight, we're sharing a teaching on humility. Louder.

1:46:55
Like this.

1:46:56
OK, how's that?

1:46:57
Perfect. OK. Humility is realizing you don't know how to use a mic.

1:47:00
All right. how to use a mic too.

1:47:03
All right.

1:47:06
So according to Ram Rinpoche, he teaches us that humility is the ability to experience eternity in our mind, body and spirit. It's the conscious awareness and acceptance that we are eternity.

1:47:47
Letting that sink in for a moment. You can actually just feel that just sitting here

1:47:54
in this beautiful place of power, place of refuge. If you just close your eyes,

1:48:04
breathe, you can feel a union with this place.

1:48:10
So, with that, I know we have our ideas of what humility is. To me, I thought humility is like, oh, I need to be humble in a way that I hide my gifts. Nobody likes to show off, so I don't want to like talk about myself too much. I want to be quiet. I want to be hiding. I come from that variety of non-humility. Some of us, maybe, lack humility in the sense that we like to be the show-off. I mean, I'm a Capricorn, so I know how that feels too. But we are boastful, so it's the opposite of humility, which is boastful, pride, seeking, seeking credit, reward, fame, clinging, attachment, right? Pushing our way, pushing our opinions. And essentially the opposite of humility, the opposite of what Romm Riffeshay teaches us is ego, egotism.

1:49:39
It's division.

1:49:42
It's separating ourselves from eternity, from the truth of what we really are, which is existence, everything, nothing, enlightenment, eternity. And when we lose touch of that, that's when we start to really, you know, I mean, we all have experience with having an ego and having himself and that's what we all experience now. So humility is a way to drop the self. Essentially it's an openness, a willingness to be open to the truth of what we are. That we are this vast expanse of eternity and that everything is possible, every opportunity is available to us. And when we live from the ego, we make decisions from the ego, from self, from the limited self, we don't really see that, right? And and we experience a lot of challenges. And so on the path, so essentially what we also learn as Raja had shared is humility is the essential, one of the most important, I think it's probably the most important one, quality to have on the path to enlightenment. He says that it's because when you lack humility,

1:51:14
that is when spiritual growth stops.

1:51:16
Because when we live from the ego, we cut ourselves off from everything that enlightenment is. So, you know, when we start the path, we can enter our practice with an emphasis of selflessness which is also very important. You know we can selflessly participate in all the practices of our school. There's Karma Yoga. You know we selflessly are like, oh I don't want to do that. I don't want to do this free work. Go to yoga meetings and 10 hours a week but you know selflessly you're encouraged to just show up. And that's definitely half the battle. Or we, you know, sometimes we, speaking of our experience, resist meditation. But we know that's another important practice. So selflessly, we sit on the cushion and we meditate. But that can only take us so far. I mean, you can have, as I mentioned earlier, you know, this earnest practice, that's good. That takes us a long way. But if you still have attachment to a self, you're still coming from ego, you're not purely humble, right? You're still seeking. You're like, I want to be enlightened. I'm going to do this. It's not a bad intent. That's a very good intent. But if you're clinging to it, and you think like you have to do it, and you're just so set on it, you forget about just the process of the beauty of the practices that we have, then you kind of lose touch. It's not a pure intent. So, you know, we can carry on for so long, you know, being selfless or doing selfless acts, like we can flex that muscle until we become truly selfless. And the tricky thing is that, like I said, it can only take us so far. You know, you can go to all your yoga meetings and complete all your tasks as impeccability, but you can still be an asshole. Speaking from experience, and when I say asshole, it's because you're still suffering. Challenges are okay. Challenges are part of the design of the structures of our school, but suffering through them over and over and over again and not changing. As Ajin said, we have a agreement to change. And sometimes we just stick to suffering or we face new karma, we're still suffering. So that's where humility comes in as a very helpful quality. Because it's like a magical deal, selflessness and humility, like they build off one of another, one another, sorry. And so how do we become less of an asshole? How do we struggle? Struggle is okay, but how do we suffer a little less? Well, humility, again, when we're open to the true nature of what we really are, which is eternity, we have everything at our disposal. When we suffer, we're coming from the limit itself. So we don't really know how to get out of it. And in fact, we usually like it. So we keep doing that. But with humility, you're like, oh, okay. This is, you know, when you're humble, truly like truly humble and humility and the sense of what Ram Rupesh was teaching us is that everything you start to see life, even the challenges, even the suffering and the pain as part of the perfect plan. You experience a pure love, a reality of your existence. I know it's still tricky and challenging, but you just kind of accept it as it is. And you're like, okay, this is an opportunity for me to change, to overcome my ego. So having that magical duo of you know selfless action and humility is something that can do the trick and again humility is not enough on its own. You do have to do a lot of the work and but humility helps build that tenacity, purity, humility, the magical trio that Raja mentioned earlier. So as I mentioned, you know, it is the most essential quality on the path to enlightenment because when it comes down to it, yes, we're going to face these challenges, you you know, having tenacity and the power to keep going is really important. It's really easy to want to give up, to want to leave the path, you know, that used to come to mind, like a quarterly like, oh, I got to stop, this is too much, right? But when you have a connection with truth, you see the way, and that's where humility comes in. And you're like, okay, this is all perfect, this is part of it.

1:56:26
And when we can connect with our true nature,

1:56:31
when we can take moments,

1:56:33
and it's kind of hard to be practical, practical, I'll show some practical steps how to cultivate humility. But when we can build up enough moments of dropping the self and remembering even just for a moment what we really are.

1:56:53
Enlightenment. We can get there. So I think what's helpful too is to think of

1:57:02
you know bring to mind someone who really inspires you, someone who you really look up to whether it's our teacher or someone you know a mentor someone else in the sangha or someone outside the sangha and usually they embody you know humility they're self-effacing they give credit to others they they're willing to do the work They are noble and usually they just, you know, they don't take credit for the power they've built for themselves and others. So we can bring that to mind, you can kind of have a better image of what humility looks like because it's kind of hard to, you know, eternity, like what is that? Until you experience it. So luckily and fortunately, because we've all found ourself here on this path, we have some humility, because it takes a recognition. So another requirement is self-honesty. It takes a recognition that we also want to change and we want to overcome the self. So being here, there's a level of humility. But it's good to be more humble. It's good to embody complete humility, because essentially that's what it takes to go all the way. You know, whether you're trying to overcome a challenging yoga task or seeking yoga success, or you're just entering onto, you know, the martial arts practice of the white belt, or you're going for your black belt, or you're just trying to meditate, you know, for one song, right? Or if you're trying to go into Samadhi, essentially it all takes humility. It's a dropping of your expectations and it's remembering that it's actually not about you and there is no doing. So like I said, selflessness is like a must even flexibility. Humility is like an inward, an inner quality. It's like an inner squish that just naturally just gets squishier over time. You can't be like, today I'm going to be humble, you know, it doesn't work that way. You're going to be humbled for sure, but you might not be humble about it. So anyway, so yeah, if you found yourself here on the path that you have, you know, we're fortunate to have so many beautiful practices in our school that can help us to cultivate this. So coming down from the hoo-ha-woo-woo down to the practical aspects of how to be humble and how to cultivate that, my favorite way is actually to go into nature. And luckily we are here at a beautiful place of power. So we go on bi-yearly power trips to beautiful places around the world. And we are finding ourselves here in one right now. And it's hard to come into this place of karma like, oh, you're the best, you're going to win this place, you know, you're going to win enlightenment. You can't do that. You just sit here and you let it, right? So the more we can open our hearts to that, the more we can experience eternity and essentially humility. Another amazing practice that we have that I highly recommend is yoga. Joining a Karma Yoga project. Yoga is incredibly humbling. So there's other aspects to Karma Yoga like working with others and I will talk about the third jewel shortly, but you know, yoga is mega humbling. So if you want to be humble, join a yoga project and also be open to what project you put in, you know, get put onto. I found that as being open, not being, you know, selective about where I want to be, because again, that's coming from yourself, I'm being honest. If you have no opinions about it, and you just let the Dharma lead you, you'll find yourself in the right yoga project to foster the right kind of change. Yeah, and another practice, one of my favorites is the Scotty dragon dharma. If you think you're hot shit, until you're actually picked up a lot of hot shit, or if you try to walk a dragon, you have a plan, you're like, okay, we're gonna go on a morning walk, I have a meeting in 10, 15 minutes, you're gonna poop right now, they're like, nope. And suddenly the 18 pound little furry happy nugget becomes like a 100-pound brick that's like, you know, I'm sick. So it's another humbling experience. So if you ever want to borrow a dragon, I have one for you. And she will humble you. So yeah, I thought I had a naval until when, you know, I got a dragon. I'm like, yep, being schooled. But another magical practice that we have is martial arts. And that is also extremely humbling as Ajahn mentioned, it's an inner art. So it's perfect for developing humility and you have to be humble because, again, part of being humble is self-honesty and taking stock of where you're actually at. And when you join martial arts practice, whether you've had many samurai lifetimes that you know that helps um but you're kind of just a humbly body and you know and so part of the humility process is just here in a sense you'd be like okay one two punching you're like you're like fix your wrist fix your wrist i'm like i am fixing my wrist fix your wrist why is it floppy i'm like it's not floppy like in my head right so if you've ever gone to a class and got picked on during class it's good right um because humility actually also does come in reps and eventually you stop, you know, having those thoughts in your head and you just take it. You just take the feedback and that's another aspect of humility is being open to the feedback, dropping your opinions about what you think you need to work on and just welcoming it, having a curiosity about whatever practice you're doing, martial arts, and having a curiosity about the proper technique and how you can actually get there. Yeah, so martial arts is a good one. I'll share a story about that shortly as well. Another beautiful, it's not a practice, it's just part of our school, it's a jewel. It's each other, the sangha. Sangha and I think this is probably the hardest because we have to work together as Ajaan was talking about, but it's the most magical, it's the most enlightening because it's actually really humble, well to be fake humble, when you're alone in a cave right because naturally when you're alone you're not going to compare yourself to anyone, you're not going to try to be the best, you're not going to try to be superior and you're just going to be. But as soon as you're, because it's human nature, as soon as we're around other people we're like, we start to compare ourselves, whether we think we're better or if you're like me, you think you're not so, you're less than, right? You're not worth it. So having the gift of the third jewel is such, you know, an abundance of opportunity to experience, you know, being humbled and being in humility. A big part of being humble is being vulnerable enough to know, like I said, taking stock and just knowing that maybe you're not there yet, maybe you need help. And it's hard to ask for help when you're not humble. And the third jewel is such a beautiful opportunity for that to ask help. And that's, and everyone, I'm sure most people have had that experience of like just having an abundance of help and love from our song of mates. And at the same time, you know, there's an abundance of love and help, but there's also an abundance of like drums, right? So many opportunities for conflict because we're all our own little rough edge stone in a bag and I like scoot over, get your elbow off of me, right? So that's also another beautiful part is that we get to see our own rough edges. And that's really humility too, is actually seeing that you're not, that you're perfect

2:06:02
in your imperfection and so is everyone else.

2:06:05
And yeah, so as I mentioned earlier,

2:06:10
humility is also just being in love with reality in life. Truth, our existence, our experience, challenging all of it, the challenges and all of it. And I really experienced that earlier this week, doing one of our other practices, which is martial arts. And I was participating in the black belt test for jiu-jitsu. And, you know, there's a preparation that also took a lot of humility. But my most favorite experience of the process was getting to be, part of it was practicing with my fellow martial artists and preparing and just being humble enough to learn from them in my satsangs and having an open heart, recognizing that I wasn't quite ready for most of the time until I was, which was like a day before the test. Actually the morning of the test. But just recognizing that and being so grateful for having sangamates to practice with and to develop with. And but on the day of the test, again, feeling super honored to have been invited because I was like, oh, wow, I wasn't actually really expecting it, part of me. The non-humble part of me was like, I'm not going to get invited. But, you know, there's a knowing after practicing very hard and just selfless thing, humbly continuing on. But my favorite experience of the test was watching my fellow black belt candidates perform their techniques with such like power and flow and just amazingness. And I was just like you know the emoji with the star eyes and the heart eyes that was me and then I was like Maruki stop it put on your samurai face because I was just choosing it like for most of the time and um but just really watching each person is really each one of them doing some specific techniques I was like wow and I really learned from them like I was you know I know there was I still had to do my part but I was just so open and so humbled to be there that I was learning from them. So that when I went up, I was like, oh, cool. I was like a sponge.

2:08:35
I was a sponge.

2:08:36
I was trying to pick up as much as I could to do my best for them as well. So that was actually my favorite part, just witnessing my other Black Belt candidates, my sangamates, essentially, my brothers and sisters, just killing it, performing their techniques. And it was just so inspiring because I could see the preparation, the humility that they had to, the, yeah, the humility that they had to also display in their preparations. Yeah. And, Yeah, and so another way to cultivate humility, which I also learned from that experience was really to, like I said, is to embrace the third jewel. And when I say embrace the third jewel, it actually makes me think of growing up. I don't know if some of you had siblings, so when my older brother and I would fight, we were like 14 months apart so we had the same toys and I think we'd probably be fighting over like us, I don't know we'll be fighting over because we're like three or four but I just remember we'd be crying and yelling at each other and my mom bless her heart she was just like, that was Lara then, she's like, Lara go embrace your brother and we're like crying, I was like no and I probably was the instigator because he was a sweet you know sensitive boy, he's like go embrace your brother, I'm like I don't want to. But he's like, you embrace him right now. You know, and it was just scary because you're like, I don't want to, but my mom's yelling at me, so I'm going to do it. And I remember the first initial hugs, you're like, I can't, it's like, oh, I hate you. And you're just like looking at each other.

2:10:17
And you're like, ugh.

2:10:18
But I really appreciated my mom for that because after a couple more moments, you're actually like, oh, this actually feels really good, right? I don't know what we were fighting about but it's probably very stupid right and so you know i don't mean to be cheesy but you know yes literally embrace the third you embrace each other um i can't confirm we have some really good huggers in the sangha so if you're having a hard time go get a hug or go hug someone. But really that is the key practice to being truly humble.

2:10:55
It's to love one another.

2:10:56
And I hadn't said this yet, but humility is being in union. That's what eternity is. So if you can't quite grasp what eternity is, I mean look up. It's this. But look around. It's being in union with each other. Because we are on the path together and we cannot do it alone. I could not get my black belt alone. There's no way. Not at all. And so, yoga success, a black belt, you know, developing our meditation practice, Liberation cannot happen without the help of our sangha mates. And well, I also forgot the rest of my talk, so I think that's the whole the gist of it. But when I hear Ram Rupach's words about humility is communing or remembering that we are eternity. What comes to mind, actually what comes to heart is heart. You know, humility gives us, makes us unstoppable because even if things get hard, we know we have a way, right? If we're truly, we open up ourselves, we let go, we surrender all the ideas we have of ourselves and the things that we can't do on this path. And, oh, I'm never gonna become enlightened or I'll never be able to figure out this coding task. Or, you know, I'll never be able to drop this conflict that I have with the song of mayors or family member. It's when we can remember that we are a trinity, we have all the solutions at our disposal. And every opportunity is right in front of us for all of it. So with that, I would like to do a transmission. We can focus on the heart. You can look up at me and just sit up straight. There's nothing to do. Again, humility, just let go and have an open heart.

2:13:21
And let's begin.

2:13:22
the the the the the the the the the the the the so you you Thank you. And I guess we can call up Raja again. Thank you and have a good night. Thank you.

2:15:22
We got a request not to keep you here very long. So I think all the teachers, let's focus on, you know, wrapping it up in 15 minutes or less, 10-15 minutes. One thing to connect to Marici's beautiful talk. I was there at the martial arts test and she did amazing. She had an amazing awareness and she described it very humbly. The other thing is, how can you tell who's the biggest jerk in the room, right? When you're in a work meeting, right? The guy who usually starts the sentence, in my humble opinion, right? That's how you can tell. And so the next subject we have is harmlessness. So I will talk about harmlessness. And it was a very interesting process a few weeks back. This opportunity came up and this energy was like pushing my chest and I was like, I can't not sign up, basically, that's what happened. And I was like, why is that? Why can't that be? And I'm like, oh, maybe because I got so many corrections about being harmful that I could write a book about it. So I think, you know, it's just, I can admit that, so, you know, but I think I kind of came up with a quick three-step process, right? Which is harm, first, you wanna know how you harm people in the past, or you see maybe other people harming each other, and you kind of like, you register that in your mind. Then the second step is less, right? Don't do that, do the opposite, or don't do that, right? Whatever harms people, so you become harmless. And then the third step is Ness, which is you integrate the process and you learn more and more new ways how not to hurt people. And I wanna provide a couple of points that can be also helpful. One of them is in general, you can call it selflessness, which is that let's say we work together on yoga, right? It's important that if I work with someone, then I might expect that they're going to get something done, but I should not have an expectation. So everyone has a task, but if I have an expectation and there is a self there, then it's very easy, especially for managers, yoga leaders, to harm a yogi or a student. And again, you know, I did that. So I learned my lessons that way. It's very important to keep it open so that you allow your students, your yogis, your peers to make mistakes, your managers, everybody. Allow them to make mistakes and just do what they gotta do. So take the self out of the way because you don't know what's going to happen. In a way, another angle is detachment. So when we are attached to a result that this task must be completed, again, it can create a situation that when it doesn't happen, then we might have a self, some anger come up. And so that's not helpful and then harm may happen. Then the next one is, as you remember, you know, Ajan talked about, oh yeah, I remember. He called it, you know, I was writing my notes a few weeks back and I called it, like I was pondering, I was meditating on how not to harm people and what came to me is come from the heart. And it was interesting to hear when Ajan said, you know, he called it lead with love, right? And here's a recent story, a process that I've been going through is that I had two ways to communicate, either kind of shut down and not communicate or kind of yell at people, right? But yelling at people is not harmless, so it doesn't work. And also if you shut down, eventually you blow up, you can't hold all your experiences back that are not pleasant. And I never, almost never harmlessly communicated to others when something happened to me in a, I don't know, in a yoga, karma yoga context or something similar. And again, a couple of weeks ago, it kind of came up and I, I sent a, just a handful of messages to a couple of, you know, kind of showdown friends. I was like, hey, there was this, there were these repetitive patterns. And what was interesting is that I could move to that place where I was like, what is my goal here? And then besides that, I was considering that I want to communicate how I've got pushed down or hurt by somebody else. I could put that on the second place, that was secondary. And the primary was that, yes, I want to communicate that, but I don't want them to get hurt, bothered, feel blamed, or feel any kind of negativity. And it was, and as I could put it first, that, should not be hurt, they should not feel anything negative. For the first time, I didn't have to rewrite the messages. I was able to just explain them and then observe the message and it was positive. And again, if you got a message from me and it was not positive, please let me know. I know how to do better next time. But everyone was very, very positive, very, very understanding and supportive. And they were like, wow, this is, you know, this seems like it's a positive process, you know, my apologies. And you know, this this this communication was okay. So you know, we need to learn to, you know, support each other by communicating if something hurts, but harmlessly. So you know, I can just go back to what Ajahn said, lead with love, right? Like you come from love, place of love, and it's true, then others won't get hurt. And if others get hurt, then you can say, oh, I can refine, I need to refine my attention, I need to open my awareness to do better. Another example, Ajahn talked about martial arts, right? That a black belt does not hurt other practitioners. And that was so funny, I was just laughing because 95% of my injuries came from basically playing in the kitchen or in the Dharma Dojo with white belts and bodhisattvas just for fun. We just start tagging each other and then we kick each other in the shin kind of a little too hard, right? And, but again, when somebody is a black belt and you know, don't just think martial arts, think everything, right? We are all black belts, like soon, you know, all of you, Bhutan's black belt, Shodan's, everybody, they're all black belts in the yoga belt ranking. So we have expertise and excellence in different things that we do. And whoever has excellence in something that they do, they don't harm others. Okay, yeah, I have to look up my notes. So, harmlessness in martial arts was the last one. The next one is what I still think is important, which is, which again, Ajan talked about, is that just because we are harmless, it does not mean that, how I translated it, we lack intensity, right? You cannot go to a martial arts dojo into a martial arts class and be late, right? It doesn't work. You cannot be powerless. The key is coming from you develop power. You have intensity, you face intense situations. And by learning control, that's the key. That's how you not hurt others, but you can still bring up the intensity. But it's kind of like reminds me of what Ajahn said about teaching in general. And he said, teaching is like wine pairing. You need to bring the perfect, you can bring the perfect wine, the perfect situation for the perfect student with the perfect meal. Right? So it's very, very important that we, if we look at it that way, that does help.

2:26:49
And I had one more point, which was interesting.

2:26:52
Again, you all may know that one of the main books that we read is How to Win Friends and Influence People. And an interesting, just very brief thought came to mind for me is that book talks about speaking in terms of others' interest, right? Which is a beautiful thing. But as I was preparing for this talk, I was like, hey, can we take this to the next level, which is acting in terms of others' interest.

2:27:25
And it's time. So I would like to do a transmission.

2:27:30
So let's, please focus on your heart. And it's going to be about harmlessness and look up towards me.

2:27:42
So, thank you. So. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you So, So Thank you. Okay, so I got a message from the Ashan. So the night is over. So thank you everyone. The other teachers will come tomorrow and please pick up your stuff. Make sure not to leave trash behind and let's walk back quietly. and let's walk back quietly. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
