0:00:00
All right, hello. All right, let's begin with meditation. We're gonna sit for one song, focus on the heart.

0:00:12
so So so so So so so So So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you All right. So today I'd like to talk about the second attention.

0:01:30
The second attention is a very important aspect of the spiritual path, because it's the essential aspect of the spiritual path. So what is the second attention? It's hard to say, but let's talk about what it's not. It's not the first attention. So on the path we have the first attention. I also call it the seen world. And then we have the second attention, which I call the unseen world. So the first attention is everything you can see, touch, hear, taste, smell. It's also concepts, ideas. It's everything. But the second attention, the unseen world, is everything else. And what is that? What's everything else besides everything that you can think of or see? Well, spirit, essentially. There's something beyond physical awareness, beyond what the mind can compute. And it's spirit. It's a spiritual experience. And my example of that is always love. So if you reflect on someone that you love very much, if you were to describe that love, you could say words, but the words don't quite get to that actual experience of love exists in the second attention. So this is what I mean. It's outside of words or even concepts. You can't conceptualize love. When you really feel love, it is an experience of the second attention, I have an analogy. It's kind of like the difference between Christianity and Hinduism. Really, the Bible tells you to love everyone, but the Kama Sutra shows you how. So in our school, we have really powerful teachings of the first attention. It's the most important thing, the first attention. So my Shodan teachers teach the first attention. So they teach, you know, like intro classes, beginning classes, they teach, you know, job yoga, career development, karma yoga, you know, martial arts, scuba diving, all the things in the school. They are the teachers of that. And in teaching it, they show you how to do it, and then they infuse it with mysticism, with transmissions and empowerments and initiations. So these are all very powerful teachings of the first attention. And they're the most essential. Now I teach the second attention. So all I teach is the second attention. So I don't need nothing. But nothing's powerful. So in the second attention, there is the direct experience of enlightenment. So the second attention is the unseen world, and it is the direct, unfiltered, unmanifest experience of what we would call truth, enlightenment, God. I don't know, because all those words actually don't make any sense when you're describing the second attention. But the second attention is what we seek on the spiritual path. It's to come into the second attention, to come into that enlightened view, the direct experience of life with no thoughts, no feelings, no self beyond self. That's what So, that's the second attention. Now, as a second attention teacher, it's been a strong commitment and journey for me. So, I've been teaching for over 20 years, and I've been learning to teach through the second attention, and refining my abilities little by little. When I first started, I had a dozen students and I was able to teach them. And I was really, you know, I spent years with them and I'm like learning to teach stronger and stronger in the second attention until finally I was like, I'm stronger. And then I was like, now we can have 100 students. And now I can teach 100 students in the second attention. And now, you know, after some more time, after some iterations here, now I can teach thousands of students. And also, you know, better in the second attention. So even for the original students. So the second attention is what we would call spiritual teachings. And this is something that I've, you know, really, really worked on, developed through the years. So it is something that isn't, you know, I don't just show up like once or twice on Zoom, you know, and just talk about a spiritual topic. I'm actually teaching all the time. 24-7. So time is in the first attention. So I'm a teacher of the second attention, where time doesn't exist. And that's where I operate. That's where I teach from. So my teachings are available. And I'm also, like, intentionally bringing them to you. Constantly saying, try this! How about some of this enlightenment? Or that one? Ice cream enlightenment? Enlightenment is everything. But I'm constantly, with all of my students, bringing Enlightened teachings and inviting you to Enlightenment, inviting you to learn, inviting you to realize a higher level, to break through a karma, to elevate your consciousness constantly. I always do this. I know it sounds funny, but I always do it because it's in the second attention. I can do it when I'm asleep because I do Tibetan dream yoga, which I've taught many times to my students. But it's more than just Tibetan dream yoga. It's the mandala of light. Because Tibetan dream yoga, a big aspect of it is that you have to be asleep. But when it's noon in Hawaii, it's midnight in Hungary. And I have many students in Hungary. So while I'm awake, I'm Dream yoga. Because I have Hungarian students, you know, because here in Hawaii or California, people are like, oh wow, I have these magical dreams. And I'm like, mm-hmm. And you know I teach you in dreams. But then in Hungary, it's like, wait, I had a dream, but Zsabar must have been awake. I mean, the Ajahn. See, I even messed it up. So, they're like, I don't know what's going on. And I'm like, no, this is because I've learned Tibetan Dream Yoga. I've practiced it for years. And I've, you know, kind of transcended time and space, which is the second attention, which is I can use all the yogas at any time. So, one of my favorite things, you know, sometimes I sit down in Hungary with, you know, like a student and a translator, and there's Hungarians who don't speak English at all, and they go, I had this amazing dream with you. You taught me all these amazing things. It was so great. And your Hungarian is perfect. So that happens.

0:15:00
I have to tell you about dream etiquette.

0:15:01
So in dreams. I express a teaching of the second attention. Let's say a teaching of love. And then in the dream, you will experience that second attention teaching. And then in the dream, you will have symbols from your karma, from your life. And those symbols will resonate with the vibration of that love. And you will see things that come up in your mind. It has the vibration of the second attention, but it comes up in your own symbolism. So when people come over to me and say, I had a dream with you last night, it was great. Do you remember? I'm like, mm-hmm, they're all, yeah, because remember we were like riding on a sheep over the desert and then the sheep had wings and flew into the sky and I'd say, oh. And then they're like, don't you remember that? And I'm like, essentially. So, so the thing is, everyone has different symbols in their dreams. This is a part of Tibetan dream yoga. And when I come into your dream, my etiquette is to bring a second attention teaching and most people don't remember the dreams. So if you ever remember a dream, it's a great thing. Keep your dream journal. because it's very, very powerful. But when you have this dream and you have your story in your dream, I only came from the second attention. And then you played it out. I laid it out so you can play it out, but I do that in the waking too. It's so funny though. That's why I can dream with a Hungarian student who doesn't speak English and when I dream, my energy, my second attention, meaning translates into their own language. And I speak perfectly. I can do Hungarian poetry. Hungarian poetry is a very advanced system. Yeah. So, this is what I do. Now, when I got back recently to Hawaii, I'm in Hawaii and someone said to me, I'm glad you had a good vacation. I'm like, no, this is my vacation. I was away on work. I was away on a retreat. Now, my retreats, if someone had a retreat like mine, a normal person would be bored. So I remember this one time at the office, long ago, when I used to work in an office, some guy went on a, you know, on a vacation, he comes back, and he's like, hey, he gets us all around. He's like, let me show you pictures of my vacation. We're all, okay. And he's like, oh yeah, I went to the Bahamas and look, here's me sitting at the pool having a cocktail with a little umbrella on it. And we're all, and then he's all, here's me fishing on a boat. And he's, here's me catching a fish, holding the fish. I'm like, he's all excited. Then he's all, here's me feeding an iguana. And I'm like, he was very excited. Everyone else was bored. You guys know that, right? Okay. But compared to that, my spiritual It was like watching paint dry. Is it dry yet?

0:19:40
I mean, compared to that, it's boring.

0:19:44
Or it's like doing household chores. Cleaning everything, making everything perfect, just going around. But it's like, I don't know if that's fun, but I think it's boring. Going from that sunset, from sunrise to sunset, cleaning everything, I would call it a day. So my experience was not a cool vacation. It was work. When I was away, I wasn't away because I teach in the whole Sangha. Every time I go on a retreat, vacation, I'm elevating things. I'm meditating very, very, very deeply. It's a bigger demand than when I was away, my normal meditation session is a morning meditation session where I meditate six hours. And that's it. I usually don't meditate at night, but you guys should. But my normal meditation is a six-hour sessions. And then on the last few weeks of my retreat, I was doing 12 hours and 45 minute meditation sessions. Can you imagine? You shouldn't because you will just sit there and space out. When I meditate, I go very high. It seems like 20 minutes to me. I have to take bathroom breaks because I take Ushpana. But somehow, that doesn't even matter, even though I started a meditation. So when I do my retreat, it is not to go on a vacation or to be distant from you. It is to bring the teachings up. Every time I've taken a retreat, I've always brought back higher teachings for the whole Sangha and everyone benefits. So my last retreat, this is the strongest mile marker that we've had. I mean, this is the biggest. So things have been happening since this retreat and more will happen. It's a new Dharma. So this is good. Now, get back into the second attention. What I say doesn't matter at all. What I say doesn't matter at all. I'm only saying it to click you in. So I can connect with your second attention. If I can say something that gets your attention, your first attention, then I can start working with your second attention. If I say something that makes sense, then you go, hmm. But I'm working on a deeper level. If I tell a story, then I gotcha. If I tell a joke, even if it's a bad joke, I gotcha. Isn't that funny? I'm a master at this. I'm not kidding around. And it's serious to me. The words that I say are not the teachings. The words that I say are not the teachings. I know that I'm teaching in words, but if all you hear is words, it's not the teachings. There was a great Zen master, Hakuin. Renowned Zen master. Everyone's, oh, he's the best Zen master in the universe. Hakuin. And he said, I might actually, was it him? Anyway, some Zen master.

0:25:02
Some Zen master said,

0:25:03
is in my mind. The moment I speak enters partial sense or enters bias. So a lot of people hear my words and say, yeah, but I don't like it. Or I don't have grief. Or, you know, all sorts of stuff, right? I mean, we're in this crazy age where everyone has an opinion. And opinions are like elbows. Everyone has one. Is that... Movie reference, okay.

0:25:55
So... Enlightenment is not an opinion.

0:25:58
So when I speak, my teachings are not words. It's like if you walk into a karate dojo and the sensei says, you go like this, you go like this. You go, I don't agree. The sensei goes, okay, you try to hit me? Sensei does the technique and it works. And the sensei goes, okay, now I'm going to try to hit you. And guess what? Nothing you do is going to work. Yeah, for everyone who's got some mental, emotional reason that you know enlightenment better, just go to a karate dojo and challenge a Sensei and say, Because martial arts and spirituality go hand in hand. Ask the Shaolin Temple. So it's really important to understand that second attention is a real planet. And it's not an opinion. And it's not an idea. Enlightenment is beyond. It's beyond the self. And if the self has a reaction and an opinion, that's all self-contraction and not opening to existence. It's important to understand. There was this Zen master. He had a student who said, I really want to know enlightenment. We call it Satori, enlightenment. He's like, how can I have Satori? And then the Zen master says, a plum tree and I want you to go out look at the plum tree and find the perfect plum tree blossom.

0:28:08
Sanjuro.

0:28:10
Plum tree flower. It's like find this perfect Sanjuro. So the monk walks out, looks at the tree, there's a whole bunch of flowers on the tree, he's looking for the best one and that master, he comes back the next day, I saw this one, is it the right one? He's like, no! Go out, looks, sits there, which one's the best? Comes back, is this one the best?

0:28:57
No!

0:28:58
And then, day after day after day after day, and the master just keeps saying, find the right Sanjuro, you have the Satori. He's like, how about this one? Never happened. He's like, I pretty much told him every blossom on the tree. He went one by one eventually, just dot dot dot dot dot dot dot dot dot dot dot dot dot

0:29:22
every blossom on the tree.

0:29:23
Got through it all. And the Zen master's all, no! He's like, but I think I told you every blossom that's ever on the tree or what's ever left. He's all, no! And he goes out and looks at the tree, and then everything else on the tree is just dying and about to fall off. And he's like, how are these perfect?

0:29:45
And he's all, well, maybe that one?

0:29:46
And he comes back and explains it. No! And the Zen master says again, this is what the perfect, perfect, perfect Sanjuro brings to Tori. And when he said it that time, the monk saw in his mind what the master was talking about. And he saw this perfect, perfect blossom in his mind. And then that brought him to liberation. So the second attention teachings are not physical. They're pointing to something else. If you look at what's physical, you miss what it's pointing to. It's like with a dog. Okay, a little dog comes over and I go, hey, your toy's over there. And I point, your toy's over there. Go to your toy. And the dog is just looking at my hand. I'm all, go to your toy. The dog doesn't understand the concept of looking over there. The dog's just looking at the hand. That's how we are with words.

0:31:01
You say things in words,

0:31:02
and they all end up just being, oh, your hand. And your hand pointing. That's cool. Thanks for your hand pointing. No, but I'm actually pointing for you to go somewhere. So enlightenment cannot be captured in words or thoughts or concepts. Enlightenment is way bigger than that. The second attention, way bigger than what we can understand conceptually, but something that we can know spiritually. You know, it's as if, let's say you've lived underground, deep underground, your whole life. You're born there and whatever you do there. But then I come over and I say, you know, there's a weird path to the surface. It's really strange and hard to get to. But if you get to the surface, there's this thing called the sun. And the sun is bright. You can't even look at it correctly, but it illuminates everything. You can see all these things called trees. What? You know, there's an ocean and you can see for miles. And you, you know, flowers and birds and all these other things. And then people go, what, wow. And if I explain it to you, you know, I have a concept of that, cool. But that's just a concept. It's not the same thing as the experience. So if I say enlightenment and I talk about it, then you'll say, okay, I have some idea about it, but it is absolutely different than the experience. Absolutely different. So it's like learning meditation. If you sit down to learn meditation, you need to get the basic instructions, the proper instructions. But then you need to earnestly practice meditation. And then you will know meditation. But the more you read about it, and the more you hear about it, the more words, actually, the more words about meditation take you farther away from meditation. Once you have the basic concepts of meditation, you need to meditate. Read more books on meditation, you're going to get concepts of meditation. Talk more about meditation, you're going to get concepts of meditation. Conceptual meditation is not meditation. So you don't need to learn meditation. But you don't need to learn it from the mind, you need to learn it from experience. Or you need to learn it from enlightened teachers. So, Shodons are powerful teachers of meditation. A Shodon, or a Buddha, can teach you meditation not in words but in the luminosity of their consciousness. It's because they are good at meditation. They go into high states of mind. They go into the light and they sit with you and then when they are meditating with you, they create this powerful energy. That's how you learn meditation. If you try to learn meditation from a book or from some lame class or something like that, you don't learn it. You learn it from very exceptionally trained people. You sit down with someone who's really strong in it, they can do it, and then you learn it through, we call it telepathy, through energy, through connection. But yeah, not through, so far not through an app. And not through a class where people don't know how to meditate, and yet they're going to teach you how not to meditate. I don't know, it's funny, but that's what happens in the world. But in this school, we have Shodans who, every time they meditate, they connect powerful dimensions of life. And that's how you learn to meditate. Or you sit with me. In these satsangs, I'm in the second attention, wherever you are in the world, and I'm teaching meditation. So this is a place to learn. This is what we call the secret teachings, right? We're like, oh, what's the secret teachings? They must be really secret. And they are. But the secret teachings, essentially, are the teachings of the second attention. And that means that you have to be able to see the second attention to understand the

0:36:47
teachings.

0:36:48
It's not that it's a secret, it's just that most people don't get it. I remember I was reading a lot of, like just doing some personal research, reading a lot of Tibetan secret teachings. Now there's these translators who got their hands on these old scrolls of these advanced teachings that were only, you're only supposed to get that after 25 years of practice of a certain study. And they're all like, well, we got it. And we're translators. So we translated it and published the book.

0:37:26
And I was like, wow, cool.

0:37:28
And then in the beginning they go, you're not supposed to read this unless you did 27 years of work in this one lineage, but we translated it for anyone who did. I was like, cool, I didn't do it. And so I started reading these, these Tibetan Tantra teachings, like very advanced kind of crazy stuff, like you have to be there for 27 years to get that teaching. And I was like, wow, it's out there. So there's so much like cultural symbolism, so, but I can see the essence of it. And I'm like, all right, it's in there. The secrets are in there. So I see the second intention of it. It reads like this really weird confusing thing in the first intention, but I could see in the second intention that it is a teaching of enlightenment, like a powerful teaching of enlightenment. So this is, these are what we call the secret teachings. You could read this thing and probably most of you would read it and go, this is crazy. This is, this is crazy talk.

0:38:40
Right.

0:38:40
And then, and then if you can see the second intention, you would read all this weird stuff and you go, Oh, ah. So a lot of the training is to understand the symbolism of it so that it opens you up and I mean years of training to get to that level. But I can see the direct second attention of it. Which is the real deal. So these are the secret teachings. We also call them the silent teachings. Because the teachings, as I said, are not my words. It's, we call it in between the words. In between the words there's power. There's power that I'm saying. I'm meaning something in the second attention. So Buddha was sitting with his students at Vulture Peak, one of his favorite places to teach. And he was giving a teaching and then at one moment he just was quiet and he saw a flower in front of him and he picked it up. He picked the flower and looked around and one of his students, Sariputra, became enlightened. He saw the second attention teaching. No one else saw it, but Sariputra saw it. And he became fully enlightened in that moment. Sariputra was one of Buddha's, you know, like, greats. So, that was a moment where he was teaching. Just took a moment, picked a flower. Sariputra became fully enlightened, and then Buddha kept talking. So, these are the secret teachings. Secret.

0:40:57
They're not secret.

0:40:59
These enlightened teachings are fully out there and available, but you have to be able to see the second attention, otherwise, second, it can be standing right in front of you, but if you can't see the second attention, you don't see nothing. So my teachings are, in words, make an opening. My teachings, in words, they create a vessel. A vessel to hold something, which is the truth. So my teachings and words are important. It's important for me to structure things right and to do things in a certain way so that I can carry you and open something for you. But what I'm clearing the way for, what I'm opening is the availability of truth and enlightenment. So, like if I was, um, if you saw me, you know, doing some clay and making a cup, you're like, oh, that's what he does. He makes, you know, pottery.

0:42:19
I mean, he makes cups.

0:42:20
I'm like, here's a cup, here's another cup, here's another cup. And you're like, oh, that's what you have to make, cups. And then you go, that cup looks stupid. I disagree with that cup. I have this opinion of cup. But then I say, it's not about the cup. It's actually, I'm making the cup so I can give you water. And actually, water is what's essential. So I do have the tonal to make a cup, but I am a water bearer. I have the stream where I can give you the water. So, you know, if I talk and you disagree with me, you're not looking deep enough. You're getting caught up in the first attention and you're not seeing the second attention. Because you're just looking at the cup that I make and you don't realize what I'm filling the cup with. You're totally confused. You're looking at the first attention when the point is second attention.

0:43:29
Okay.

0:43:32
So King Lion one time said, hey, we're going to have a big party, big banquet, everybody from jungle is going to come or savannah or whatever. We're all going to come and we're going to have a big party. So this is probably a true story, by the way. OK, so then, you know, all the animals from the savannah come. And then King Lion says, okay, to start our party, everyone has to tell a joke, but it has to be a good joke. And if your joke doesn't make everyone laugh, if there's one person who does not laugh from your joke, I'm throwing you in the river. And then in the river, it's really fast moving, it throws you down off of a little waterfall. It's not dangerous. And then you're in a pool of water, but you're far away. So you can't come to the banquet. Big banquet. And we're all gonna eat.

0:44:35
I'm gonna eat you. Just kidding.

0:44:38
We're all good.

0:44:38
There's all this food for everybody. Okay. So, it's like, Mr. Monkey, you come up first, tell a joke. So, Mr. Monkey comes up, tells a joke, and everyone laughs, except for the Desert Tortoise. Desert Tortoise laugh. So the lion, King Lion, throws Mr. Monkey into the river. And then Mr. Monkey does not get the banquet.

0:45:22
And then Lady Ostrich comes over.

0:45:24
Madam, Madam Ostrich. And she starts telling a joke. And in the middle of her telling a joke, the middle of it. The tortoise goes, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, starts laughing. It can't stop laughing. And then King Lion says, hey, what's up with you? Why are you laughing? And then the tortoise says, that monkey's joke was awesome. So it's not easy to understand the second attention in the beginning. But if you hang in there, eventually your second attention grows. And then you see what the second attention is. But you have to start looking at things deeply. You can't just sit there and go, I hear the words, I disagree, I have an opinion. Enlightenment is not an opinion. Martial arts is not an opinion. Go see karate dojos, tell them your opinions. Right? And enlightenment is not an opinion. So look deeper. Look deeper. You know, a student doesn't come to an enlightened teacher and say, I have an opinion. A student comes and says, I'm here to listen. You don't come with your hands full, because then you don't get anything. You come with your hands open, because then you can get everything. So a really strong way is to not be so much in the mind, but be more in the heart. That's a better way to see things. Because if you approach a teaching from the mind, you'll have all sorts of ideas and objections. You should approach teachings as a meditation, with an open mind, with an open heart. And then you can learn something. So I want you to just, we're just going to do a teaching where you open your heart, just let go of your ideas, try to come from the heart, and I'm going to show you a direct teaching of the second attention. So I'd like you to sit up. We're going to focus on the third eye, and I'd like you to just look at me. And this is a teaching of the second attention. and just kind of silly rhyme but don't over focus on that. Just look at me. Have this intent of having an open heart. And let's begin.

0:49:04
So, so you the the the the the the the the you So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So when we come to the path, anyone who comes to the pathway to enlightenment is a really good, amazing spirit.

0:53:24
And it's important to come from that place of light and love, but also to develop yourself. Because if you're just a nice, lovely person, this world is tough. And you can get so much opposition and pushback that it actually crushes your spirit. So when you have a good spirit, you have to develop yourself. In school, the way that we develop ourselves are through our disciplines. Meditation, the foundation of all practice. Mindfulness, and for those of you who know, compassion, the yoga of compassion. Career development is essential in this world. You have to be strong in your career to afford the insulation to support your practice. Because if you don't have enough money then you're stressed out and you can't meditate. All your personal power is drained. So what the Shodans teach in the school is that power. When you take this beautiful spiritual being that came to the pathway to enlightenment and then you make that that you take that little spark and you create a flame so it's sustainable because a little spark a little flame can blow out the conditions of the world but a strong fire that's what we develop that's what the show don't teach and can come and go, like the fire won't go out. So this is a very important thing. You know, Shodons teach all of the disciplines of the school because they are black belts, you know, like go to a dojo and usually the sensei isn't teaching, it's one of the black belts of the school is teaching. And they're good, they're strong, they know the way. So you follow the teachers of the school and they help you to develop yourself. And the Shodons teach very powerful Buddhist mysticism. So it's not just how to get a job, how to establish a career, how to do karma yoga, how to do martial arts, how to do scuba diving or something like that. It's everything that they teach is Buddhist mysticism. In everything that they teach, they give transmissions. This is Buddhist mysticism, where they actually bring up the Kundalini power and then they Extended to show you a truth or they do an empowerment or if there's teachings of initiation powerful levels that they can bring you into open doors These are very very powerful teachings So if you're a nice person You have to become a powerful person in this world And this is a school where shodans teach you how to be powerful. Very important. And I'm at the center of all teachings in the school. So my Second Attention teachings work with, hand-in-hand, all of the First Attention teachings and Mystical teachings of the Shodons. So, yeah, I'm always involved in the teachings. So, like, if you go to a big karate dojo, there'll be the, you know, eighth-degree sensei, and then there'll be all these different black belts who are actually leading the classes. But it's all under the jurisdiction of the sensei. Sensei knows exactly what's going on. The sensei will go over to the black belts and say, maybe do a little change here. They'll correct the black belt so that the black belts do everything perfectly. And then that way, everyone in the school comes up, including the black belts. So, I teach the second attention to my You know enlightened students the showdowns, but I also teach it from the beginning the second attention is part of all of this second attention is what I call the mandala and It's it's it starts in the beginning starts from the first time that you come to an introduction meditation class You start to learn the second attention So the second attention and everything that we did was first attention, nothing would be interesting. There would be nothing. I remember I was at a dojo in New York, Takahashi Dojo, good dojo. And there was a teenage girl who, she was so bothered by the sensei because he's grumpy. It's a grumpy sensei. But she really loved this one black belt who taught her mostly. And she's like, I don't like sensei. He's so mean. And then the black belt was like, well, if sensei didn't, if sensei wasn't here, there would be no dojo. If he, if he didn't study with the master, Funakoshi, and then come here to be in New York, from Japan to New York, and then offer this to us, there would be no dojo. We wouldn't know any of this stuff. He's like, I wouldn't be able, you know, it was like, I used to think that this was fighting. He's like, but now I know thousands of techniques. So he said, don't just be grumpy because of the sensei. You should respect the sensei. You have to respect the sensei, because that's where all of this came from. So when I teach, I'm teaching very powerful things at the proper level. You know, if you're a beginner, one of the biggest, most important things is in the second attention there are teachings, there's structures, there's thousands of structures in the second attention to support you. And one of the biggest things is develop your career as a beginner. If you're a beginner, you must develop your career.

1:00:27
Otherwise you're really not engaging.

1:00:28
You have to develop your career. There's many structures to help you. But you've got to develop your career. And then when we get to the Bodan level, the Bodan level is where someone's serious about the pathway to enlightenment. And they are on the track of power. It's a track of personal power. This is what uplifts you to mastery. So that's, you know, if you're a beginner, your goal is to get to Bodon because that is the fast path to enlightenment. And when you're a Bodon, you just, you work on all these disciplines and you get so much personal power. It lifts you up and there's so much structure. There's so many structures in the Second Attention, teachings in the Second Attention, to get you to Shodan. And Shodan is where you get... that's called... Shodan is called the Advanced Path. That's where you get all of the empowerments of the school. And where enlightenment is a click away. We put that on the internet. Enlightenment is a click away. Yeah. But, Bodon is the powerful level where everyone should be focused towards, unless you're already past it. I had students that were showed on for like 10 years or something like that. I mean, Bodon's for like 10 years. For a long time. And then they got all these very, very, very, very powerful teachings that brought them to Shodan, the advanced teachings. And then from there, it's all easy. Now, when you get to be a Shodan, then you start to actually enact the higher teachings in the second attention. Actually, while I'm teaching you from the beginning till the end, I'm teaching you the second attention. So, Bodans learn the second attention. That's where you start to really go, Oh, I know something in the second attention. It's concrete. I have this awareness. Before that, you're just like, oh, but Bodon's is, Bodon levels where you start to really, really understand, oh, I know something in the second attention. And then when you're showed on, you start to go to those higher levels. Like I was at the last Paris teaching and Yogini was there. She gave to the Sangha. She was there for a couple years or something like that. And she was just really working with the Sangha, the Paris Sangha. And she gave a teaching the last night. And in that teaching, she became like Vajra Yogini. And that was like a very strong, very, very, very advanced usage of the second attention. So this is what Shodan's and Arhant's work on, they're like, okay, now that we know all of the basic ways to work, because that's what you learn, I mean, the functional ways to work as a yogi, that's what you learn as a Bodon, then all of a sudden you can go to those extremely advanced ways of expressing it as a teacher. Or otherwise. Yoga, too. So, there's, in the second attention, many things to learn. And past those advanced stages, there's more, which I call the Maha Mandala, the yoga of the mandala of light. Okay, so, I'd like to thank you. This was really wonderful. And I think we're going to have Tara up next and Tara will be talking This was really wonderful. And I think we're going to have Tara up next and Tara will be talking about the new structure of Shara Buddhism. Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
