0:00:00
All right.

0:00:03
Hello. Happy Equinox. We're going to begin with meditation. So we'll sit for one song with a focus on the heart. Step straight.

0:00:16
Let's skip. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the So So So So Okay. So, since it's the Equinox, I thought we would kind of have a lightweight subject to talk about, which is Ultimate Reality. It's ultimate.

0:01:50
So, ultimate reality. Ultimate reality is the unity of all things. It is extricating is being unlimited, being free, the totality of being. So what brings you to the awakening of the ultimate reality is meditation and yoga. where through these disciplines you can see that which is false and reside in truth. So ultimate reality is enlightened consciousness. is not a high state of mind, and it's not a realization, and it's not an attainment. Even the most sensuous seeker can't go to a guru and get ultimate reality. You can't get it out of a book, or a philosophy, or a spiritual practice, or anything, or a religion, or anything. You can't get it. Nor is it a thing. I'm talking, you know, like, it's a noun, right? Ultimate reality. But it's not a thing. And you can't fly up in the sky and look down on one or try to land on it or something. You can't go to the depths of the ocean to find it. Although you know, I read, I reread Mystic Scuba and I said, oh, I'm going to go deep enough. So I did a really deep dive, like 220 feet beyond the recreational limits. Because I needed to have ultimate reality. And I got there, and there was nothing really there. You know, some sand, some water, little fish. And then I was like, wow, this is one of the lowest moments of my life. Yeah. But, you know, scuba diving is very spiritual. Jacques Cousteau, he would call deep diving, he would say, it is this beautiful experience, this amazing rapture of the sea. Right. And when you do deep dives, you feel this, you know, and you know scientists later came up with this thing called nitrogen narcosis, which is nitrogen under pressure creates a kind of an intoxicant to people. And so that's why we do deep dives. But no, really, actually, diving is very spiritual.

0:10:14
And I think all divers feel the same, deep down.

0:10:22
I'm going to do my safari jokes, but I'm guessing I'm on, I'm definitely on scuba jokes. Okay, so I have a scuba joke.

0:10:28
This is just a joke.

0:10:29
So there were these two guys who were in business together, dive masters, had a dive shop right next to a big resort in the Bahamas. And they were horrible dive masters, but they were very industrious about their business. So they kind of like, you know, got top management to let them, every time like a new group of tourists would come in, they would come in and they would sell their diving experiences. Now, so this big group came, you know, like 100 people, and they're like, yay, we get to sell these guys. And the general manager of the hotel had to introduce them, and he knew that they were terrible. So he always had a bad idea about them. But there was a hundred people, so they're like, we're gonna do this big pitch, we're gonna get a lot of business. So there's a big room of people and one of the guys says, hey, my partner's going to go up first and I want you to say he's a great dive master. And then the general manager says, no, I won't say that. He's terrible. And then he says, come on, say it. And he's like, no, he goes, I'll give you a hundred bucks if you say it. He goes, okay, he pays a hundred bucks. And then he gets up and he's introducing the guy and he says all these horrible things. This guy trashes the reef, he molests the marine animals, he left on their boat, he left two divers out at sea. Four people got the bends diving with them. Everyone who ever got an open water card from them doesn't know anything about diving. You know, so they're horrible teachers, horrible health problems, horrible ecology. And then he looks at the Cowell Theater in San Francisco, and all the senior teachers got together, and then they said, we have to do something about this guy who interrupts the satsang with these really bad jokes. And I was like, I was wondering why I never got invited to that meeting. So now I teach over Zoom and that's that's good but I'm telling you this is because humor is important. My teacher always used to say, the Mayan people are super funny. And I'm super funny to myself. I mean, I do this because I crack myself up. But, yeah, but humor is so important because humor always gets you out of being stuck in

0:14:16
the self.

0:14:17
It is a great aid to the realization of ultimate reality can't be achieved from a book or a practice, even though I said there's a practice that gets you there, or teaching, or a teacher, or a place, or anything. And the reason why is, wait for it, because ultimate reality is within you. So you can't get it from somewhere else. It's already there. You're all, oh, really?

0:15:10
That's it?

0:15:11
But wait, there's more. Yeah, so this is the ultimate truth of ultimate reality, that ultimately, you are ultimate reality. Which is absolutely true. So, there was this brave, this Native American warrior and he goes he fought many battles and he he wanted a higher truth so he goes to the wise elder woman of the of the tribe he says I want to go on a vision quest and I want to be one with the Great Spirit. So the wise woman of the tribe says, go to the mountain and sit and look at the shadow of the green tree. Then, go to the valley and sit and look at the dew drop on the yellow flower. Then go to the river and see the reflection of the white cloud.

0:16:55
He says, thank you.

0:16:58
And he goes on his vision quest. He travels far up a mountain. And at the top of the mountain, there's this one green tree. And he looks at the shadow of the tree. He sits there and he has this realization of spirit. He's like, I don't know, there's something to this. There's something. This shadow of the green tree. I don't know.

0:17:25
But not enough.

0:17:27
So he goes down into the valley. Finds a little yellow flower. And there's that little dewdrop. And he sits there and stares at that dewdrop, totally fixated, focused, concentrated. And then he has this experience of some wisdom, some knowledge, and he's like, that, that, that's amazing. I'm getting more. Yes, yes, there's more. But I need, it's not enough. I need that, full awareness, the full connection with Spirit. So then he goes to the river. And he looks into the river. And there's nothing up there. And then he looks up in the sky, no clouds. He's like, well, gotta wait for the clouds. So he's sitting there looking in the river, waiting for the clouds. And then another brave is going by on a horse, and he's a friend of his. And he comes by, gets off the horse, walks over to him, and he says, Hey, white cloud, what are you looking in the river for? So, there's actually nowhere to go, nothing to do, to find Great Spirit, to be one with Great Spirit, to have ultimate reality. Because you are that. You are that. You are already that. So, in understanding ultimate reality, it is not understanding phenomena, the Maya and the Samskara. All that goes, oh! That changes all the time. All that goes, ooh.

0:19:27
That changes all the time.

0:19:28
It's like, you learn one technology, and then you gotta learn another one. In the same contract. So, that is just the way it is. And so, it's not understanding the physical knowledge structures of the world. Ramakrishna didn't know nothing about the world. Anytime someone told him about science, he'd be like, oh my gosh, this is just like, oh, too much. But this guy would like shine with like light, shimmering light of consciousness. So that's what it is. Ultimate reality is knowing the mind. It's not knowing the world. It is more than the world. It is ultimate reality. So it's a place where all things come together. Your mind. Ultimate reality. Everything's there. All of this. All of this. It's all in you.

0:21:18
So, it's where everything comes together.

0:21:22
Deeper connections than anyone could see in the physical world. So, I remember the very first time I went with my teacher to the Anza Borrego Desert. I don't know, somehow I networked with some, sorry. I networked with some people

0:21:46
and I was just driving in a car with them.

0:21:49
And one guy was this recent Stanford grad, he was a physicist at the Lawrence Livermore lab. And he was so cool and interesting. He said so many things on our drive out to the desert. Then I sat next to him in the desert. And one of the first things that my teacher did was, we sat And the wind wasn't blowing. And then there was a nice wind while he was teaching. And then he said, I brought that wind. This is a wind of power. This is a wind that is a current. That is a current of consciousness that elevates your meditation. And then we took a little break. And then he said, that's ridiculous. And then he told me and a couple of people next to him, he told us all of this stuff about how in the gorge there was a certain wind and how a little pressure, I don't know, system. He said all these scientific things and I was like, well, he seems to know what he's talking about. So he was just like, it's nothing spiritual. It's definitely scientific. And I was like, oh, well, it makes sense to me now that you've explained it. So I believed him. And then we come back to sit with my teacher, Ramana Rinpoche, and he, you know, the wind is still coming and then at one point he goes like this. And then the wind stops. He didn't say anything but he went like that and then I noticed the wind comes strong the other way. And then he goes, and then he did this other thing. And then you hear this wind blowing super strong, but far away. And then he says, and the wind got strong again. And then, you know, we're supposed to like just be meditative and stuff, but I went over, I mean, the guy was sitting next I was like, what about that? And then he leaned over and he said, yeah, forget what I said before. So it's not just knowing the scientific world, it's the connection to a deeper reality. Ultimate. So, ultimate reality is in you. Om Mani Padme Hum. Also, in Tibet, they say, enlightenment is within you. That's it. That's the truth. However, Enlightenment is in everything else. It's in the ashram. It's in the book. It's in the spiritual teaching. It's in the religion. It's in the sky, it's on the safari. If you guys want me to start safari jokes, it's gonna be bad.

0:26:08
Okay.

0:26:08
So that means that you can't get it from those things because they are those things. You can't get ultimate reality from anything because it is ultimate reality and so are you and if it's ultimate reality then that means that ultimately you are both the same Shankara, Shri Shankara of India, great, great enlightened master. Shankara said, I am the tree. I am the sun. I am the wind." And Sankara was absolutely correct that that ultimate reality of being was not Sun, the wind, anything. Anything that you see is ultimate reality, which is you. Krishna said this too, but Krishna always would say like, of the trees, I am the best tree. Of the seashells, I am the hunk. I think that's the biggest seashell. You know, but so Krishna always was like, I'm the best of the best, but I'm everything else, but I'm the best, because he was like, I'm like the good stuff. So this is true. I would say maybe meditate on a flower. Take a flower, put it in front of you on your meditation altar, and have your eyes open. You can focus on chakras, listen to music, but look at that flower and you will say, actually, I mean if you meditate, if you still your mind, you will see that you and that flower are not disconnected, that you are one with that flower, that that flower is one with you. I remember it was in August in New York City. August in New York City is hot, humid, and my teacher always used to say it's the lowest vibe in months on the East Coast. Because it's so hot and humid and the streets stink. And New York needs to do something about its trash. They just pile it up on the side of the street. Paris has a good idea. They built these things where all the garbage goes under. They've like a little garbage can, you put stuff in, and there's a giant garbage can under. stand under New York plastic bag side of the street. See, I'm telling you. So it's hot, it's humid, it stinks. And everybody goes like this, everybody in the whole region goes,

0:30:16
with their attention. And it's, you know, as a psychic person, it's very difficult.

0:30:18
It's hard to be around. And you feel terrible. I remember one time I was like, I was with mandala. It feels so terrible today in August. Let's go get a pineapple because pineapples are fruity and juicy and prana and happy and that's going to fix it. So we we went we went to it was called whole fields which later became whole foods. And we got a pineapple and chopped it up. It was terrible. It was just like, it died. It died in August in New York. Probably came from Hawaii, went all the way over to New York, sat there in the heat, and died. The pineapple died. And I said, oh, okay. Well, no escape. Let's just sit here and suffer. But then, a week later, we had this teaching from my teacher. And someone was complaining about how difficult this August was, and of course, it's August. It's going to be difficult." And then he said, meditate on a flower. Meditate on a flower. You put a flower on your altar, meditate on a flower. When everything is terrible and heavy, meditate on a flower has a really beautiful energy of purity. And it looks like this flimsy thing that just dies in a couple of days because it's, you know, because you cut it, you know, or you could have a little plant and it'll die in a few months or something, depending on your green thumb, few days so so it'll die but it has this energy even if you cut it you put it in your face it has this pure wonderful energy and that energy and it's you know It seems like a flimsy thing that dies really quickly, but it is a powerful thing in its fundamental aspect. It's powerful. It's a powerful energy. So I was like, oh, August is so painful. And then I started meditating to a flower. The moment I meditated to a flower, I was out of August. I looked at that flower and that flower brought me into purity and light. All of that New York heaviness was gone. The heaviness of the heat and the humidity and everyone going blah was gone and I was just feeling this beauty. So this is the truth that everything, everything, everything that you see is ultimate reality and that ultimate reality is you and so that you're connected with all things. So the thing that people do is they say, I'm going to avoid that. Avoid, avoid, avoid. I'm going to avoid ultimate reality. It just happens quite naturally. That's what people do. They avoid it like the plague. Can we still say that? Because I'm not so sure that's true anymore. Well, I'm going on a flight tomorrow to Europe. I'm So, yeah, people avoid it. There are some things worth avoiding, though. Like it's good to avoid a fight. I mean, Mr. Miyagi always tried to avoid a fight. You know, I'm a martial arts teacher, so I teach nonviolence. And I recently printed out some pamphlets about how to avoid a fight that's due to saying the wrong things, right? So it's kind of coaching you how to say the right things instead of the wrong things, because you don't want to say something that'll get you into a fight, right? So I got these great pamphlets that teach how to avoid a fight. So who wants some? You want some? I'll give you a pamphlet. Anyway, so, So, but if you avoid ultimate reality, the truth, then you suffer. So we want to face life. We want to face reality. The problem is that we tend to kind of be too much in the head and not enough in the heart. And that means that we think things instead of experience things. So, if you... the thinking is good. The thinking is really good. I mean, a lot of you guys are computer programmers. And thoughts and concepts, these are really wonderful ways for us to deal with the world in the first attention, to be successful in dealing with the world, in finance, in your career, in every single particular way. Okay, thoughts, concepts, and mental models are very useful. But it's important to know that they are limited.

0:37:48
And that's why we meditate.

0:37:50
Because in meditation, we can let go of all of that. And we can experience what is beyond that. We have to use those tools for this world. But we also have to know that our true essence, while it can dance those dances, it can be free. Free of anything. So, when you have an idea, a thought, a concept, A limited awareness yoke. These are things that have limitation on the truth of being. They might be good for getting something done, but your ultimate spirit has to be able to because a limitation ultimately is gonna make you suffer.

0:38:50
Someone might be really good at a job,

0:38:52
like a good broker, right? Might make millions of dollars because that broker is good at what that broker does. But that broker also might be miserable in their spirit and their heart and their relationships and their whole life and their diet and their exercise and all sorts of stuff. They might be good at one thing, that's one thing. So we wanna get to the essence of things. When you're in a concept, even if it's a strong concept, a good concept, one that's very functional, it's still create, it's a concept of limitation or it's a concept of duality. And it's a concept of duality. Limitation and duality are the same thing. So we have to be excellent at our skills in concepts, but we have to be free from attachment to a concept, you can engage in being a perfect martial artist, a perfect yogi, a perfect computer programmer, and then when you sit and meditate, you can be completely free of that. And that's where you experience spirit and unity. So, let's just take an example of a fire. So if you just had thoughts about a fire, if you knew all the science of the fire, if you had past experiences with fire, if you had all ideas about a fire, you know, myths about a fire, all of that would exist in your mind. And as long as you have all those thoughts, all those feelings, all that history, all these ideas, you still don't get warm. You don't, you can't cook the food, you don't get warm, it doesn't help you. That's the mind. Experience of the fire is being close to the fire, actually experiencing the fire. You probably will do things to keep the fire going. You might see the power of the fire, you know, but it's important to understand thoughts and concepts are not

0:41:44
the experience.

0:41:46
The problem is that most people think their thoughts and concepts and the mental models

0:41:53
are true.

0:41:55
And they'll even sit in front of a fire and overlay the actual experience of the fire with their thoughts and concepts. So what we want to do is drop thoughts and concepts. You know, at certain points, we're like, let's just experience truth. And actually, even through thoughts and concepts, you can experience truth. But a fire is an experience more than a thought. And so is life. And that's fundamental to the way that you see the world. You see the world as the world is physical and fixed, finite, and the self. And the self is definition ABCD123, and that's who I am. Apparently, because that's what I know. But that's not true. So this is one of the reasons that we do power trips, right? So we just had a power trip recently to Mount Shasta. And so, you know, two or three of my showdowns, led this trip and they had this amazing beautiful time. So there's a very important thing in mysticism. It is to show that the physical world that you think is so real isn't real. the leaders of the trip, some of my senior students, they showed in the night that this Mount Shasta could light up with light at night. It's like all this light coming out of the mountain. Or, they showed that they would stand there and then during a teaching, in a mystical teaching, the teacher would turn invisible. They're standing right in front of someone and then they turn invisible. You know, these are just, these are what we call the cities. These are mystical powers, but they're very important to share with, you know, beginners because it shows you that the physical world that you thought was so real actually isn't. It's not as fixed as you thought it was. So that's a very, very, very important aspect of Buddhist mysticism. So when you say, nope, the world is physical, the world is this, the world is that, and the guy talking to you, or the gal talking to you, disappears. And you're like, okay, something funny is going on here. My awareness of life is being shifted. Things can be different. And for the self as well. So you have the definitions of self. You say, nope, totally believe I'm an individual, I am separate than everything else, and that I like cheese. I don't know, whatever. You know, and I do this, and I do that, and I, you know, this is my job, and this is my friend, stuff like that. And you think that's true. But if you practice meditation, you'll go beyond that. You will sit and stop thought. And the moment that you stop thought, there's this ecstatic luminosity, a transcendental light that appears in your... it is who you are. And then all of the things that you thought you were, all those definitions, even, you know, stresses, everything of the transient world is gone. The self is gone. And you just are there, experiencing luminous consciousness, which is your innate nature. So this is false. Something that you thought was there vanishes. It's like there was this guy, he had a headache, he had dry mouth and fatigue and he was googling it and he goes, oh no I got brain cancer. So he goes to his doctor and he's all, look what I found on the internet, I got brain cancer. This doctor goes, okay. So they did some tests. This doctor says, all right, so he comes back with this big, big, big, big, like plastic bottle of pills. So he goes, you have to take one of these a day. No wait, one of these with a glass of water, eight ounce glass of water, one of these. And then guy goes, whoa. He's like, wow, that's a lot of meds. He's like, so that means I do have brain cancer, right doc? He goes, no, you're just dehydrated. So, well, what's in the, what are these meds? And he's like, that's just vitamin C, like low dosage, but like, it's good for you.

0:47:40
But you need to drink some water.

0:47:42
So, it's like the time I went, I was like, you know,

0:47:47
I had to get some reading glasses,

0:47:48
so I went to an optometrist. I go in and then they like, all of a sudden, they're like, oh, you know what, you're color blind. And I was like, oh wow, I got diagnosed with that? I was like, wow, I thought I saw everything clearly.

0:48:05
So I didn't expect that, you know,

0:48:10
that totally came out of the purple. So, that's what I thought, I totally think.

0:48:16
Totally, thanks.

0:48:17
All right, so the thing is that ultimate reality is actually just seeing past the illusions of the self, dropping the illusions of the self, and seeing the luminous consciousness that is the extant reality of your being. Meditation is very important, very important. It is the foundation of all practice, it is the most important practice. But meditation alone is not enough. If you just want to be a meditator, you're probably going to get stuck in what meditators get stuck in. And that's why you have to do yoga, karma yoga. Karma yoga means that you take action and that you take responsibility for your action. So karma yoga is selflessly working the best you can, the most impeccable that you can to do something for, you know, maybe you have a business project that you're working on or you're just helping your spiritual community. So you have to just do more than for yourself. You have to commit to some work for even if it's for your spiritual community. I will do something consistently. I'll take responsibility. You can count on me. I will do it as impeccably as I can. And I will, I will, I will help my community or I will, we're creating a business. You know, we've had some successful businesses in Losanga and they've been some of the most powerful uplifting things for the whole Sangha. So you gotta do your best. So here's the thing.

0:50:28
Meditation is like seeing.

0:50:30
And let's say there was, you're trying to see outside, and outside your window, there's a sutra, some spiritual text that tells you the answer to the universe, that tells you how to awaken to unlimited reality, how to have enlightened consciousness, how to be elevated, how to be empowered, everything, tells you everything you wanna know. So meditation is very clearly focusing on that. You're like, okay, in a good meditation, I can see that window. Because if you're just like in a bad meditation, you're sitting there thinking about like something that you've been doing before, and it's a person, and like this and that. But if you get a good meditation with focus, still your mind, that window appears. Now, that window has obscurations based on eons, they say, of karma. It's a whole bunch of mess. And yet, meditation, a good meditation is where you start to see that window, and then you start to see through that window. But if there's a whole bunch of dirt on it, it's so hard to see. So you might see a little bit through, and you get this one phrase, and you're like, oh, that phrase gives me information and I'm uplifted, I'm excited.

0:52:06
And then that was a good meditation for you.

0:52:09
That's what most people do with meditation. That's very limited. My meditation is I always get to that window and that window is crystal clear and I see the whole sutra and I get everything. You might get 0.1% and I get 1000%. Anyways, no, but really, what people say is a good meditation is just that there's so much things that are blocking them off. They just get a little piece of information, but there's a much stronger way. And that is to do some kind of karma yoga. Serve your community. Do a business. Do something. You gotta work with your teacher, work with your sangha, do a business together, or serve your community. If you do that, that's yoga. You wanna do your own thing? Oh yeah, I'm kind of doing my own business, my own way. It's not selfless. You will be adorning the self with new ideas. And it's absolutely not yoga. You want to do your own project, you're all, yeah, I kind of do like pet grooming as my yoga, you know, or something like that. You know, you can't do karate without your sensei, right? I mean, you can, it's just going to be weak karate. So it's not real karate, that's what I'm saying. Learn karate from a book. It's very important to be selfless and to engage and work for, I mean this is a karma yoga, you selflessly work to develop yourself and for no reason at all. You have to be selfless. People are like, I work because I want money, I want prestige, I want this, I want that, I want this. But when you work for yoga, you don't get none of that. You get nothing. You can't work for yoga with any idea of getting any position, any money, any return. You have to actually learn how to be selfless. You just work for the sake of working. But this is very important because if you could learn to work for the sake of working then you could learn to be selfless. So it's called Karma Yoga because when you take an action that is selfless, you're not doing it for yourself, I know it's really hard to understand. But you just say, whatever I have to do, whatever's needed, I will just do it. And I will consistently do it, I won't quit on it, I will just continue to do it, whatever it is. That's a yogi. And that's the way beyond self. If you get to the point where you're like, I quit because I'm pissed off, then you're not a yogi, and you're a self person. And you're never going to be happy. You're always going to be a second self. Great! Do for yourself. Do for you! Yeah, but it's like, any, you know, I mean there's Jeff Bezos and, you know, like there's all sorts of billionaires.

0:56:02
And are they enlightened?

0:56:03
Are they happy? Are they balanced?

0:56:05
No, this doesn't mean, you know, this is not a practice of like the fastest way to money or power. This is the fastest way to enlightenment. And when you, when you do things in an enlightened way, you tend to succeed as well.

0:56:27
But it's much better.

0:56:28
So you have to actually learn selflessness to be happy, to be free. You might make the most money in the world, make the most powerful thing in the world, do the best thing that you wanna do. And you won't, I mean, there's tons of multimillionaires, billionaires who are totally miserable, and you're following their path. So yoga is self is the most important thing is selflessness. If you can be selfless, you can learn impeccability. You can be excellently strong by giving yourself to the yoga. It's a totally different way than the miseries of the world of power and struggle. So if you can say, you know, normally I work for my Sangha for nothing, for no reason, and past what I like to do, past what's comfortable for me. Then you reach that place of selflessness. Selflessness has a tremendous power. Meditation alone is difficult. It's difficult because the mind is tricky. When you meditate, you become still. And then in that stillness, you have this amazing opportunity to transcend. But what normally happens is you go into a high state of mind and you come back. Or you start to add on to self. You adorn the self in new ornaments.

0:58:33
And that is even worse.

0:58:35
Because you're all, now I'm a spiritual self. I meditate every day and now I'm a spiritual self. And it's terrible, that gets even more confused. But if you have the gumtion, if you've got the heart to selflessly work in yoga, there's a power in that. There's a power in that. There's a tremendous power in that. And that power is karma yoga, action that creates union. There is a result of action that creates an energy of union, an energy of union. And then when you meditate with that energy of union happening, in that moment where you become still and you feel some peace, then that power from Karma Yoga helps you to actually transcend the self. And when you transcend the self through meditation, with all that power from karma yoga, yoga, union, that power brings you to enlightened consciousness, to see your enlightened nature. And that is the awakening of ultimate reality. So, I'd like to offer an esoteric teaching. This is an inner teaching, a secret teaching, a teaching without words. And this teaching is a teaching called the Cosmic Mandala. The Cosmic Mandala is a... when you understand it as a mandala, you understand it as a depiction of ultimate reality, but it is itself ultimate reality. thousands of dimensions, thousands of elements and attributes that are connected. And in the mandala, they're all in balance. All these things, all these worlds come into one place and are one. what we call that instrument in the second attention to understand ultimate reality. Beyond words, direct experience. So we're going to sit for one song.

1:01:27
and look up this wave

1:01:29
and let's begin Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So I'm gonna take you to the end

1:01:42
So I'm gonna take you to the end So I'm gonna take you to the end So I'm gonna take you to the end So I'm gonna take you to the end So I'm gonna take you to the end So I'm gonna take you to the end Oh, so So So All right. Wonderful. All right, wonderful. So happy Equinox everyone. Tomorrow is a very important teaching. So this one got added to the docket because it's necessary. But it's really important so I'm teaching this definitely in that very tight Equinox transit. it. And then, so everyone worldwide watch this. And then I'll be in California, and

1:03:25
then in Budapest, Paris, and in November, in Bangalore. Hi guys! So, so I'll be giving additional teachings to the Equinox in the Bay Area, in Bodhi Woods, and also in Europe. Then we're going to have the first Hungarian India trip. Can I mention it?

1:10:30
Okay.

1:10:31
So, yeah, so Trio is on one of those trips and we had these magical times. Matt, we go to these amazing spiritual sacred places. We meet these amazing, like, people who do the city powers and enlightened people throughout India, north and south. And we do this trip and it's just amazingly powerful trip. And when we were on the trip, Turia was there and Turia said, I have the seeing, I have this part of my spirit that says, I got to write a book about this. And Taria's a writer. You have to read her other books. She has multiple books. But, and she said, okay, I'm going to definitely, and you even came up with the name there. It was in Rishikesh. It was barefoot, bare soul. Because we are walking around in their feet sometimes. That's great. Anyway, so she wrote a book and it's not out yet. It'll be there eventually. Don't worry. Promise. I promise for you. That's how she does it. It's going to happen. That's what we call selflessness and impeccability. So for those of you who haven't been on this very, very special trip to India yet, this book will eventually come out and you'll be able to see it and read it and hear these tales of power. Some of the most amazing, magical, mystical things I've ever seen. So you'll be able to do that. And eventually, either I or one of my students will be able to take you on this trip. Eventually. We have to do it right. Yeah. So anyway, I took a lot of senior students of the America Sangha. And now we're going to take some of the showdowns of the Hungarian Sangha. And we're going to go have that adventure. Boom! And the wonderful thing is, you know, now we have the Bangalore Sangha, so the Hungarians will come and then we'll be able to meet the Bangalore sangha. They'll be like, what? I'm like, yeah, you guys haven't hung out with me. So like when I go to Paris, I go to, I've been going to Paris for years as just after teaching in Hungary, I would just go there for a few days and relax because I love Paris. And I started teaching in Paris, then I got this, you know, sangha over there. And I said, I started taking them around to places and I'm like, here's the place of power, let's meditate here. And they were like, wow, we never knew this was here. I never experienced that before. I'm like, yes, I know Paris better than you. So far, I want to know your favorite bakery.

1:13:52
Yeah.

1:13:53
Stuff like that.

1:13:53
Anyway, so things are wonderful. Tomorrow is a very important teaching. Everyone should be there. And for those of you who have fasted, fasting is good. So I fasted with the first group, and I also fasted with the second group. I fasted up until today. And so, you know, when we're fasting, it is a really beautiful deep time of reflection where your physical awareness starts to subside, your subtle awareness starts to open. And it's also a good time to kind of restart. So, you know, a very important thing is to be in balance with the food that you eat. And so after, you know, having a little bit of a fast, you realize, actually, I don't need to eat eight hamburgers a day. And try to find balance with your diet. It's good need to eat eight hamburgers a day. And try to find balance with your diet. It's good for you. Okay. Equinox balance. Hamburger balance. Four in this hand, four in this hand. All right, thank you all so much. Beautiful sitting with you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
