0:00:00
Hello. All right. Welcome to Satsang.

0:00:03
We're going to begin with meditation. We will sit for one song focused on the heart.

0:00:15
Let's begin. So, the the the so So so So So I'd like to talk to you about accepting your enlightenment. Enlightenment is consciousness. Consciousness is the fact of awareness of the mind by itself. Consciousness is the mind aware of itself. And consciousness is something that we could all say is true. Right? You're like, I'm aware. That's the truth from the beginning to the end.

0:02:20
When you have consciousness, you can recognize that that is the ultimate truth of being. Consciousness is enlightenment. Enlightenment is consciousness. And everybody can say, you know what? I'm conscious right now. Oh, good. There's your burning nature. Shouldn't I leave something else? No, no, that's it. You know, well then why do I suffer? Why do I have trouble? Because you overlay things. You limit your consciousness with things. Ideas, mental modifications. But that truth of consciousness is enlightenment. when you overlay it, you just don't use your resources your full potential you say, well, I know I'm not and I'm not going to do so much for reasons of desire and aversion you stick to a certain thing, but it's possible. It's kind of like everyone is in a cabin, like in Bodie Woods, you're in a cabin, and you're like sitting in your cabin, and you're like, I like my cabin. I understand my cabin. I'm very used to my cabin. My cabin's good. And then you're sitting in your cabin, and then you're like, but now I'm suffering. You enter into a situation where you're like, I'm hungry and there's no food in my cabin. So you're like, oh my gosh. And if your whole world's that cabin and you're suffering because you need to go out to get food. Actually, even if you look out the window, you go, oh, you're in a cabin and all you see is the cabin. There's no food in your cabin. But you look out the window and you got your like, your DoorDash delivery guy bringing you some Indian food. And he's sitting there for like hours just waiting for you, knocking at your door. Knocking at your door, girl. Oh my, I don't want to have any food. He's knocking at your door, he's got your pumpkin here. Those are so good to mix together. And then you know, the best food was right there. And those, you know, those delivery guys, they work nonstop. So, it's so important to understand that if you're in a stuck place, there's a bigger picture, and you need to use your resources.

0:09:36
You need to look out, you need to listen to the knock on the door, you need to look out

0:09:40
the window and say, oh, that's where suffering comes from. You don't have to suffer. But consciousness is fully aware. It's free, has no limitation. And if you ever limit consciousness, you suffer. If you limit truth, you're against truth. The truth, or consciousness, is truth. Consciousness is free, liberated. What is? So, it's only the modifications of the mind, self, the desires, the fears, and things that trouble consciousness. It's not even trouble, to understand it correctly. But it's like a limitation. Anytime that the mind is acting, it's a limitation. So the way that I see life is life is luminosity, fully bright, because I'm an unlimited consciousness. But most people are in the dark. They're in self. The moment that you're in limitation, you're in the dark. And that means that you're in a dark room, and you have like maybe a little match. And you're like, what's that? Oh, there's a flower I like. It's so cute. And what's that over there? I don't know. And I'm afraid I can't see that far. You're looking at... in the dark.

0:11:46
But... if you just...

0:11:50
let go of self...

0:11:52
you'll see that... the self is what's... closing down awareness and that actually the whole universe is limitless consciousness.

0:12:10
Right.

0:12:12
You can see, you turn on the light in a dark room, like you might sit there and go, oh my gosh, I'm hungry, where's my Indian food? And then the light comes on and you go, oh my gosh, the butter chicken is over there. And you're like, oh, I'm hurt. But if you turn on the light, oh, my medicine is over there. Everything that you need is there. Turn on the light. In the corner you might see a Peruvian llama. You know, like, wow, I didn't even know that was there. And frozen llamas are really spiritual, so there you go.

0:13:04
It's true.

0:13:05
Like in Japan, there's this beautiful town called Nara. There's this amazing temple, very beautiful Buddhist temple. And Buddhists have been going there for a thousand years, and the deer, when you go there, the deer bow. I mean, they all bow. You walk in, and there's deer all around and they all bow. It's true. It's a cool thing. They're spiritual deer. It's true. Anyone been to Nara? Oh, they bow, right? um yeah and so you know Peruvian llamas are also spiritual but like in your in your room of darkness when it becomes light and you see that that llama if you go to that llama that llama will give you a blessing but that llama won't come to you you have to go to that llama because llama stay. And I'm telling you this from my own personal truth because like literally in my bedroom, next to my bed, I have a pink stuffed llama. Like it's a cute little like llama toy and I love it. I named it Ananda Llama. When I moved to Hawaii, it was the first thing that I got here, and I've always had Ananda Llama, and a lot of you know Ananda Llama, right? Because I bring out Ananda Llama, I'm trying to say. And I'm like, oh, Ananda Llama, so amazing. It's like this cute little toy, like a little doll, like a dolly llama. I just love it. So it's so beautiful. And you know, the thing that brings higher consciousness, complete consciousness, is a teacher. Because if you don't have a teacher, teachers always show you more. Even in math, even in third grade, a teacher always shows you more. But if you get up to this level, you might think that you're at a level of, I'm struggling with my life, you're at the level of PTSD. And a lot of other things. Anyway, but you're at the ultimate level of life. Trouble and in life. And how to go beyond both. So, this is where a teacher teaches higher consciousness through higher consciousness. You can't learn higher consciousness from a book or an online class or from an app. I don't know how people are trying to do things. It is through a teacher. The teacher is higher consciousness. And that's the way to do it. I mean, you can learn karate from a book. I mean, you guys all saw Karate Kid. and he got beat down. And then Mr. Miyagi is like, try some poke. And the YMCA? He's like, no. From a teacher. The teacher has

0:17:20
Taito-shi

0:17:22
spirit. It's something strong. Something stronger than you can get from anywhere else. So, it's from a teacher. The teacher is not even a person. You think I'm a person because I'm animated. I'm more like a hotline. It's like 911. 911. I have a spiritual emergency. I'm like, I'm here for that. I'm just answering the questions. Really, I'm not like your best friend. I'm just here to save your fucking life. No, that's what I, that's what I do. But I'm here to save your life. I'm here to save your life. Whatever. I'm here to save your spirit even more than your life. I'm 911. You're like, oh my gosh, 911. I'm like, what is your problem? And you say, I don't know, actually, I'm even better than that. It's like, 911 for the spiritual teacher. Thank you for calling the spiritual teacher. Press one for the meaning of life. Press two for the secret of happiness. Press three for a llama. And I'm like, yeah, a llama. That's good. Actually, that's the best thing. If you want anything, meaning of life, how to get out of suffering, liberation, go for the llama. That's what I have on my enlightenment pod. Thank you and good night. Oh wait, there's more. I like my little pink llama and it's just a really happy little thing. But llama, the little pink Peruvian llama, is spelled with two L's. L-L-A-M.

0:19:51
Llama!

0:19:52
But, do you know what a 1L llama is? A 1L llama is a holy person from Tibet.

0:20:13
Tibetan Buddhism.

0:20:15
That's the 1L llama. So I like that, because I have my little Peruvian llama. It's like a special thing. But it's a llama, so I also see it as that one L llama.

0:20:30
From the two L's to the one.

0:20:32
But do you guys know what a three L llama is? No? It's a big fire in Boston. A three L llama. East coast joke. Sorry. Europe and international. It's a three-a-llama. Yes, it's like, even California's getting it. It's like, I told you to go get my car keys so I can go to the airport and you came back with some brown pants. Sorry. It's just... Bastard. So... I don't get it. We're going to explain it to you. We're going to explain it to you, and then it will be less funny.

0:21:43
of their self-consciousness. And self-consciousness is not enlightened consciousness.

0:21:56
In fact, most people are just aware of their body. They're all, oh, it's hard to sit here. Actually, ouch! And while I'm just sitting around, it's just difficult. That's body consciousness. There was this monk, Weishu, a Tibetan, no, sorry, Chinese, Zen guy. And he was like... Here's how his enlightenment happened. He slept on his arm, and he woke up, and he's like, I am me, I'm conscious. He's like, but my arm fell asleep. So this is no longer me. He's like, this is me. That one is asleep. And then he's like, that is not me. And then, after a while, a little blood, a little tingling, and then he saw, Oh! I'm back! That's enlightenment. But, body sensation can't be, and then he became enlightened after that, but body sensation is not enlightenment, right? Come on. It was such a basic idea, but it snapped it into, oh, it's like, as if.

0:23:43
Duh.

0:23:44
That's like the duh. Every answer to a koan, a Zen koan, it's like, what is the sound of one hand clapping the answer is duh

0:24:09
guaranteed

0:24:09
tell any zen master duh and then that zen master goes now you know secret the koan really for sure he's all duh he's like my hand was asleep and then it's awakened blood came in and I became awakened again to who I am That's who you are. You have been asleep. Buddha said I'm awake. You have been asleep. If you're awake, everything, energy, flows, attention, magic, greatness. It is absolutely real. That's what I'm here for, for you. And I'm your best friend. I'm trying to be humble. I'm your best friend! I am. A spiritual teacher is what we call a spiritual friend. I'm a friend to your spirit, anything that you want. I'm in your heart gently and profoundly showing you this is the way. This is the way. There's a way of Dharma in your heart. There's a way, my gosh, of Dharma in your heart. And I meet all sorts of trouble and tribulations, but I withstand the years of of bringing people in troubles. You can't have a trouble bigger than me. I will always direct it towards enlightenment. And you all know that's true. I mean, this is what we do for each other.

0:27:02
The fact of enlightenment of the mind is not that something happens.

0:27:08
We all say, oh, I should sit down and I should meditate and then all of a sudden I'll go, I get something that gave me enlightenment or enlightenment came down on me or I did something that was, something on top of me? Enlightenment is in you. Enlightenment is who you are. It's a fact. Om Mani Padme Hum. Enlightenment is within you. Enlightenment is who you are.

0:27:41
It's true.

0:27:43
Enlightenment is who you are. It's true. And it's very strong. It's real. I know that as a truth. And when I talk to you about that, and I hear about a wave of light

0:28:03
and a wave of truth, you feel it. You say,

0:28:07
So, this is real. There's some light. And light, freedom, upliftment, is what it is. So, there's this thing, a very big, important teaching. It's called Neti Neti. That means that, actually, you have to you have to drop all the ideas. Who has a trouble? Our haunts have a trouble. Who has a trouble? Actually, just raise your hands in your minds. I don't want to see a room of hands. It's going to be every hand. And I will also raise my hand. Who has a trouble? Who has a trouble? As a spiritual being. As a great being. Who only wants enlightenment. Who has a trouble? We all have troubles. Guess what? Jesus had troubles! And guess what? Buddha had three assassination attempts on his life in Sibiria and Zimbabwe. This world doesn't like enlightened people and they don't like... this world is against against karma so if you had trouble you are against I don't know why you go, arguments, trouble, blah blah blah blah So And we are on the side We are on one side One side of What does Buddha do? Where's the heart of it? Jesus Christ

0:30:39
Like all the best ideals of the great saints and Latin people.

0:30:42
We're like, what do we do?

0:30:43
We are in their protection. But protection. Because they're great and we're within them. See? It's not a limited thing. It's a big thing. And I don't know if you guys understand, but that's it. And all we want for each other is just to love each other so much

0:31:40
so you know the funny thing about enlightenment it's like you think it's

0:31:47
like I gotta get I gotta do something for enlightenment no you are you are you know it's funny I have to do something I have to gain something is a recognition. It's like, who doesn't have it best? There's a rope in the dark, think it's a snake. Then once you realize it's a rope, you're like, I'm not troubled There's no trouble. There's no trouble. There's no trouble. It's just... It's not a snake, it's a roach. There's no trouble. Sorry.

0:32:46
It's a big hot.

0:32:48
Just...

0:32:50
But... I'm just being honest.

0:32:54
But...

0:32:56
There's no trouble.

0:32:58
Everyone who says,

0:33:00
Hey, Silver! Please, understand.

0:33:04
Through this example,

0:33:06
as an offering to all of you,

0:33:08
there's no trouble.

0:33:10
Don't be bothered.

0:33:12
Don't be bothered. Don't be bothered. Don't be bothered. Don't be bothered. Be free. And as all of you are, in that freedom,

0:34:00
great

0:34:02
This will happen great Right everything I mean like my kittens sure for real All right Alright, let me tell you what this t-shirt gives me. I mean, like, I have years of listening to me, but I'm for real.

0:34:28
I'm the real deal.

0:34:30
Just a fine-tuned person, I mean, right? Best friends. Best friends.

0:34:50
Not the real deal, but real. I'd like to do our last meditation. We just sit together. Just a sit tickle. Just complete meditation. so so so so so so You I'm going to do this for friends tonight. I'm going to do this actually. Energy. It's this energy of motion and energy of movement.

0:39:49
It's what everything Tai Chi is. It's a great expression of all of the imagination

0:40:02
in a form so anyway I say thank you so much

0:40:08
this was particularly strong

0:40:14
thank you be well be well

0:40:18
and go higher




Transcribed with Cockatoo
