0:00:00
All right, hi everyone, let's get rolling. Welcome to the Shodan event of May 21, 2022. We will get started with one sound meditation. Please focus on the heart.

0:00:16
Oh um so Oh, so so so You All right. Hello to all of you. I wanted to acknowledge that we have a widely international audience here. And it's just an amazing thing to be aware of this. Why are we here? We are here to come together as a showdowns, the event students in our school in preparation maybe for the solstice, and also to join forces and hearts in this beautiful teaching cycle of heartfulness, this month.

0:02:15
And we'll have a panel talk type events today with the kidney and the jail, joining. I will be the moderator and timekeeper. Let's see how long are we going to be here today, an hour to one and a half hours. So that's the time frame. We would like to encourage you to turn your cameras on. This is primarily my thing. I like meetings where we see each other. That's how I spend eight hours of my day on Zoom meetings at work. So I think it would be just cool to see most of you and little hearts popping up here and there. Don't be afraid. All right. So what is the scope of this meeting? Right. Beyond heartfulness. So we'll have three plus one topics. I will shortly hand it over to Ejeya. He will share some of the positives of what's happening in our sangha today. And then Dakini will come in as Dakini and she will share, you know, bring our awareness to the some of the biggest challenges we are facing around showdown behavior and overall org and help us shift towards being more positive, mature, united, heartfelt. And then she's gonna switch it over again to Ejea and we'll think on how to prepare for the SALT test with a positive mindset and you know how to provide space for unity, healing for people and we're having a hard time. So that's the scope, these are the three topics. The plus one is a Q&A so that will be optional if you have time to stay on. We received a few questions ahead of time and we'll of course try to address your questions. Now, if you feel distracted or something, you can think of this very satori style Zen joke that I learned, which is, you know, Chuck Norris can clap with one hand That's just what it is. And Vijaya, please take it away. Thanks, Satori.

0:08:30
Hey, everyone.

0:08:31
I've learned some beautiful teachings today, and it's really nice to see so many shiny faces. And as Satori mentioned, I want to share a few updates with you that we've seen over the last month or two within the Sangha org and across the Sangha and sort of provide a prelude to some of what I think Kini will talk about. And we'll finish with a meditation and then have Q&A and open conversation at the end and that will really be optional. You know, we'll have spent a lot of time together today but we really want to be available for anyone who wants to ask questions or, you know, offer suggestions talk through things together and we can kind of stay on for that as long as we all care to. And so see how long that goes but wanted to share. First of all, some really positive things that have been unfolding since since we announced the new Sangha org at the Spring Equinox. So as you've hopefully seen from Tara, working with many of us, we've really worked to define that student journey. And it's kind of funny because like we've all been through the majority of the student journey within the Sangha, but, you know, Sambara was primarily guiding that and taking us through each step. And then as mentors and meditation teachers, we had some very specific structures we worked with, but then a lot of it was also kind of what you think your students need and, you know, a little bit of figure it out beyond a certain point. And so we've done a lot of work to really define the student journey so that each of us who are in a leadership role or as a senior student can help guide our students and be clear on when do students receive empowerments and who might give those and what's the progression and the expectation for each student in our school. So that's been a lot of work and that's an ongoing process but really, really excited to see all the progress we've made there. The dojo leaders are doing an amazing job, so very, very happy to see how well this concept of individual dojos with dojo leaders and abbots in place looking after them is starting to unfold. One of the things I'll be asking today or tomorrow for Hawaiians is, And so what I'm hoping to see in the next couple of months is I think it's time to go ahead and find some dojo leaders for for Hawaii. And there's probably a different flavor of what that will look like versus some of the other dojos. And, and that's what's been really nice too. offering teachings to Bodons and bringing people out to Mount Tam, etc. The Bodhi Woods Abbot is doing an amazing job. And of course, that experience looks different from many of our other dojos. The Hungarian song is incredibly strong. Of course, there's a lot of Hungarian showdowns, which is so awesome to see. And that pathway to enlightenment continues to unfold in Hungary in a really bright way. The Indian song is doing amazing. We have some Indian showdowns and Indian boat ons and what Tuki and Vajradhara and you know the folks assisting them are doing in India. It's just absolutely amazing. There's some very strong students across some of the other European dojos as well and so that's just been really really wonderful to see and through that process we're learning how to share best practices, work together and clarify you know how these dojos work. So I think that's been really positive. You know we've also identified a number of things that over the several transitions you know as we started to expand the sangha and you know moved into the Buddha dojo phase and then started to close that chapter, et cetera. We've identified a number of areas where, you know, systems and processes may have broken down, you know, onboarding or offboarding or how we just keep track of who's in the sangha right now. And whether that's in Kajabi or Salesforce or a spreadsheet, you know, et cetera, there's actually a remarkable amount of work going into clearing that up and making sure that we can tell who's in the sangha and what level they're at and whether or not they have a mentor and what they need and so made a lot of progress with a lot of these, a lot of these things. And then I have a guess a confession to share with you, or acknowledge acknowledgement that you know when we first got going at the end of March, early April, you know, I think we were, we were really clear on some top priorities and, you know, I'm always really big on on providing regular communications and, and, and keeping everyone aligned through a journey and what really happened over the next six or seven weeks is, I think, I think And, and so across across the spectrum of things that have come up, which Chikungunya will get into a little bit more. And so that was interesting and challenging. And I think a recognition that, that we are really the senior students in the school and we're going through a really wide range of experiences. A lot of it is really intense and challenging. You know, as we go through this showdown experience we get to experience many of the 10,000 states of minds that we haven't experienced before. And, and it's, it's really intense and I think a lot of us I can certainly speak from my own experience have had very painful experiences very difficult experiences, and it can be really disorienting. But it's also important to acknowledge a few things and this is the last thing I want to share for the kidney, the kidney talks a little bit more specifically about this is that, you know, we really were a close family. And so whenever any of us would go crazy, it was kind of like, okay, because we all knew each other very well. Like we all loved one another and we had Ajaan there to pull us together when we needed to. And, you know, that was just kind of how it worked. And if you think about it like a family, like, yeah, you know, it's okay if crazy Uncle Louie, you know, drinks too much at Thanksgiving and then starts, you know, doing weird stuff. Or, you know, angry Aunt Sally starts to really get pissed off at cousin Joey, and then all of a sudden there's a big fight or what have you. You know, it's like it's family, you go through it, and, you know, eventually you get through the holiday and everyone's fine again. But in our roles as showdowns now, with ST5s, with ST6s, with dojos across the world, when we're having a hard time or we have a negative interaction with someone, that might be literally the only experience that someone in our school has with any of us, right? So it can be very confusing or very challenging when you see Shodans either attacking one another or really going outside the scope of our teachings. And I don't think we all have that awareness yet. It's kind of like we've developed all of this power as shodans, but you know, Buddha was really clear, with great power comes great responsibility. Or I don't know, that might not have been Buddha, but it was very clear that the more and more power we have, the more we need to be stewards of that. And so I think it's important to acknowledge that that many of us are having a hard time, or that will go up and down. And it's important to have the close allies of other showdowns that you can just let loose with and like vent, and what have you. or there's Bodhans or anyone else around. Like, it's very important that we act as true black belts, you know, and as great examples, and that we just hold that awareness that this could be very, very impactful to someone else. And we aren't that close-knit family anymore that meets in the Dharma dojo three times a week, or is all living at Bodhi Woods or what have you, where these things can easily and quickly get resolved over time. So, at the end, you wanna have this open conversation around, hey, how are people doing? How can we help? I'll share a few thoughts between now and the solstice on what we can all focus on together. But I think it's just really important that we all have awareness of some of what's a challenge and then we all unite together to really be positive supportive one another and move forward from here so without it, I love to pass it over to the key and Satori please. So, as the moderator I'll probably just add my thoughts here and there, and, you know, we're improvising here, the three of us, really, so we'll get together and then the energy will flow and it's flowing, you know, where it should.

0:19:09
I wanted to add three things. If you guys don't mind. One is along this path, it's been, you know, the four of us as the org leads, we joined forces, we came in with some ideas of how and what we're going to work on, and then whatever we face, I have to say that there's always, like, everyone has such a big heart, you know, this or that, it's just amazing how we just try to like elevate and resolve things and there's this real sense of unity and brightness. That's one thing I wanted to share. The other one is that I'm in Hungary right now And it's just amazing how the Hungarians are. You know, it's such a beautiful dimension, what they're sharing. They care for some of us who are here right now. We have amazing adventures, you know, kind of mid equinox to Solstice, doing some happy power trips and events in Budapest. And honestly, it's really hard to say who is a beginner, who is a showdown. It's just everyone is so amazing. So if you wish for that experience, just hop on a plane or street and visit the Hungarians. So that's a super positive experience for me as well right now. And although I have notes, I don't know what the surfing is, so I'll just pass it over to Takine.

0:21:25
Hello everyone.

0:21:27
team a few months ago. Basically, pretty much El Samara left or a little bit before that. And I'm not alone on this team, so we have eight people on student support. They are Savitri, Sunyata, Shiva, Ishta, Dana, Ketu, Pavana and me. So we are working together on addressing escalations as they come up. It's been pretty intense in the last two months and we have been working with dojo leads, yoga leads, mentors, meditation teachers and directly with SD5 students as well. And then first of all I want to thank everybody for trusting with these problems, it's a beautiful opportunity for us to help. So, Sambara has been doing this, basically what we've been doing the last few months, for like the last 20 years, and you probably all remember some of the Dharma talks when he came on, and then he was like, you guys are all assholes, and you should really stop doing this particular thing and then half of the sangha is like, huh? Because he's also been dealing with these escalations from students and sometimes we didn't understand what exactly he was talking about but he was trying to address kind of like recurring patterns that are coming up in our sangha. And today it's not like I'm the reality or something but we wanted to try something new when we as a group kind of have an honest discussion about the issues that have been coming up. So I want to give you kind of like a post-check about how the SDV5s are feeling, how they are looking at the SANGA, how their experience has been based on the people support issues that have been coming up. Of course, all people support issues are absolutely confidential. So I'm not going to share any particular case or names or anything. So I'm going to try to be as vague as possible. But if you think you recognize a student in one of the stories, please take your mind off of them. It's very important that they all feel safe. So I just wanted to mention that. The second thing I wanted to mention is that I'm leading student support in the US. So I'm not aware of anything that's going on in Europe, so I apologize for that if I'm not being geographically inclusive completely about these things, but I figured maybe the same things are going on in the Hungarian Sangha as well, and it can help maybe the shodans and the leadership over there. So that's the intro, and then let's jump into what has been going on. So some general takeaways. Based on what we've been hearing, it looks like the SC5 students are still kind of like having the same problems as what we've been having in the last 10 years. So I recognize a bunch of stuff that was a problem when I was a newer student, and they seem to be problems right now too, which is that, and I'm sure it came a very long way, but they still experience us as a little bit too forceful, a little bit too controlling, and a little bit too top-down. So that's the first thing that I wanted to talk about. So leadership is not an easy thing, nor is it a very natural thing. Nobody's born a leader. leader, it takes a lot of practice and training and people figure out a lot of things from their personal experience. So it's totally fine and you shouldn't get discouraged or shy away from teaching or being a leader if you feel like you're making mistakes in the beginning. It's normal. So it's okay to admit to yourself that there's always room for improvement. That shouldn't be a problem. What we try to avoid actually is basically to be overconfident leaders who are not very skillful. It's actually a common cognitive bias in psychology that they call the Dunning-Kruger effect. I'm very scientific here. And that means that when you basically grossly overestimate your capability to perform a task and you don't recognize that the decisions you're making are not correct and then there are consequences to that. This is very dangerous in leadership because usually other people face the consequences of these bad decisions. So that's what they try to avoid, this overconfidence thing. So it's part of our practice of impeccability to always want to do better. So we are not perfect, we understand that. But wanting to do better is what we do. That's impeccability. So from personal experience, when I became a yoga lead in the sangha, it was not an easy experience. I didn't have the right skills. And I remember I had some big aha moments sometimes. I learned so much from my mistakes, oh my god. And you know, because most of you are on the receiving end of those. But for example, I didn't know how to motivate people. And I remember one occasion when I was like trying to motivate somebody on my yoga team by offering them a title. I was like, you're going to be like the architect of the yoga team. It's going to be so cool if you do this. No response. And then two months later, I was trying to motivate this person and Rajo went up to them and he was like, oh my God, thank you so much for everything that you do for this yoga team. And then the person started blooming and I was like, this would have been nice to receive some training or something that would have told me that, you know, I can motivate people in different ways. It was like a very new experience for me. But being a yoga leader in the sangha actually motivated me and seeing that I'm learning everything from my own mistakes and things are not entirely smooth, it motivated me to become actually a people leader professionally. And that's why I pursued a career in this, because I felt that as a group we were really having a gap in this regard. And I really wanted to learn it. I really wanted to learn how to do better so that we can, you know, I can serve the Sangha better. So that's why I've been working as a manager, as an engineering manager for the last four years at a company that cares about people so much. And I learned so much about this. So we can all improve. It's fine. It's fine to learn on the job, right? So basically, what I wanted to offer here today is kind of like food for thought for us to kind of begin thinking about switching our leadership style a little bit so that we move away from this controlling, forceful, top-down kind of leadership, and shift to something that's a higher way. I didn't know exactly what was the Osana song about. Like I saw the title, Heartfulness, and I was like, I have a feeling this will tie really well into this thing that I'm going to talk about, and indeed. So basically what I wanted to talk about today is how to shift to a more compassionate management style or leadership style in general as mentors, meditation teachers, yoga leads, dojo leads, sangha work leaders as a whole. And that's basically like heartfulness in leadership where you lift your focus from the navel chakra from like always pushing to the heart and start to really understand what people are going through and adjust your management style based on that. I call it management as a service and basically it can be described in one very simple sentence which is something that my former manager who is my favorite ever manager kept saying, which was, you don't work for me, I work for you. That's how he looked at management, that I think this is very beautiful and it's a very very Buddhist way of managing people or leading people because it's not you, it's not about you leading or us leading, but it's about about us supporting. So I So, I think as a leadership group, what would be very beautiful for us to do is to shift to this style where we primarily offer support, we uplift, we empower, we open doors, we remove obstacles and we are there for the students to catch them when they fall. This is instead of overcorrecting, being too harsh or pushing people against their will, which usually results in resentment. If you read that beautiful Medium article, then you probably know that there's a lot of incorrect information in that article, but there is an underlying theme of control, of telling us that we are too controlling and too forceful. And we need to have this take away from that, even if that person was angry and unfair to us in that article, there's something to it that we need to consider as leaders and shift to this better management style. So we have to let people take responsibility for their own path. This path is very intense and it takes everything a person has, every last drop of energy that they have. And we cannot walk this path for them, they have to walk this path. It's hard to be a leader because when you're successful in your personal practice, you know exactly your limits, you know how far you can go, you know how much you want to push. But as a leader, you have to understand that for another person who might be completely different from you, right? So that's the hard part. We don't want to push people too hard. We want to give them space to make mistakes sometimes, even when we see that they are making mistakes. Sampatha is a great example for that, actually. He gives us a lot of space. Maybe it's not so visible, but I think he lets us walk the path as fast as we can, not as fast as he would like us to, right? It's a very important distinction. And I have a few personal examples for that. One is that in the beginning of the study I was actually in a relationship like most of you know that. But back then only the ST3s were around and they were all celibate. So I remember I came to a power trip, this really bothered me, I was like, ah, and then I walked up to Samvara in a convenience store on a power trip, I was like, Samvara, let's be real with each other here. I was like, I'm in a relationship, no one else is, is this going to be a problem on my pathway to enlightenment? And then he was like, your relationship could eventually transform into something else and until then, have fun. That's what he said. He didn't say, yeah, we don't do relationship, be celibate, yada yada. I'd say he wasn't dogmatic. He looked at my situation and he was like, yeah, it's good for now. Just enjoy. And then he did the same thing with my career change. You know, I was very attached to my career and he never ever pushed me aggressively against my will into technology. Eventually, like, you know, he brought it up softly a few times. I was like, yeah, I'm going to be over there planting a tree. But then eventually he gave me an opportunity to move to America and become an engineer. And I decided in my heart that I'm going to take the opportunity, never pushed me. So he gives a lot of space and I'm sure you all have personal stories about that. You know, if we could take everything right away and we didn't have karmas and we just could work with like strict instructions right away, then this path would be super short, but it's not. We all have to do that too. So I'm gonna go all Disney about you right now. Because my favorite example of the difference between the two leadership styles is actually Encanto. I hope everybody has seen that movie. If not, then I recommend it. It's so beautiful and so magical and so cute. And I'm sorry about all the spoiler alerts right now. Spoilers, yeah. So that movie is about the magical family. They all have gifts and they use those gifts to protect their village and help the people in the village. And they can, you know, manipulate the weather and heal people and see the future and lift heavy weights and all that. But then the problem is that grandma runs the family and grandma is overly controlling. Because she's filled with good intentions, right? She wants the best for everybody. She wants to protect the villagers and she wants to help them with these gifts. But she wants everything to be her way. And then as a result of that, there's one member of the family who feels so unaccepted that they leave the family. There's someone else who is overstressed and the third one feels very oppressed. And that's harmful leadership when we don't consider the people, we just think that our way is the best way and we are not taking feedback. And then there's Mirabelle, who is a young girl in the family, who starts helping her family members by actually listening to them with compassion and understanding what their problem is. And as a result, the person who left the family comes back, the person who is overwhelmed realizes that they need to take a rest, and the person who is oppressed realizes their true potential. So that's how we want to be as mentors and leaders and dojo leads and yoga leads. We want to help people realize their true potential. We don't want them to walk the path that we think is the best for them. They have to walk their own path. And we can really empower and enable them to do that with our compassion and by actually caring and listening to them. So that's one of my main points about what I heard recently from the people support escalations, that it would be excellent for us to try this new management style. And currently we are thinking about, I know that some teams in the org are thinking about like workshops and stuff to help our leaders become more skilled. And I don't know, you know, how concrete that plan is, probably not very formulated yet, but it will probably come at some point. So, I want to finish this session by saying that, that if, like, how do you know that you're having this overconfidence of a leader and not listening to feedback or their problems. So we had some cases when people opted out of yoga teams or left their mentor personally blaming them. So if you are experiencing like that, like multiple people are complaining specifically probably you need to look into this and try to see where to improve. So I just wanted to give a short pointer about that. And now I'm going to move on to some of the issues that seem to be recurring challenges that mentors or students are dealing with. Sorry, Satori, this is going to be longer than the 20 minutes, I think. So, one of them is, the first one is, how do we deal with students who have mental health challenges? This seems to be a recurring theme, and it looks like we have people in the SC5 group, like a lot more people with mental health problems than before. And I wanted to mention in advance that we have several students in our cohort who have been very successful in the study, who have been dealing with some kind of mental health challenge. So it's not a deal breaker or anything. So we have great yogis, yoga leads, excellent meditators, people with strong careers. It's just an extra challenge. And I also want to mention that not everybody in our cohort was able to stay on the path who had a mental health challenge. We had a very well-liked member of our sangha who was actually hospitalized after one of our On the Way Go trips and at the end he left, he had to leave the sangha. I'm sure people know who I'm talking about. So sometimes these challenges can be too big for the person and as mentors and leads we have to understand that. So what we would like to ask is don't push students who you know have mental health issues. This is a huge extra challenge that they have to manage on top of this intensity that we have in the study and it's very important to give them the space that they need so they can deal with it. You need to stick to the boundaries of our program so you are primarily responsible for providing a program that people can engage in, but you're not responsible for someone's mental health issue and you should refrain from trying to do anything about it. You need to leave that to mental health professionals. I think currently we are doing pretty well with this part, but I just wanted to mention as a general guideline that we want to make sure that we never give them advice, even when they ask, like, should I go back on my meds? Say, please talk to your doctor. Right? So, and then the second thing about this that we wanted to, that I wanted to mention is that it's best if you don't opt these students into the most intense programs in the sangha or put them into situations with other people where that can be intense or problematic. So we don't recommend putting people who have some kind of intense mental health challenge into the most intense yoga teams or to bodywoods or into any dharma dojo situation. I would... what is that like? Yoga dojo. Sorry, that's what it is, yoga dojo situation with like multiple roommates where those things can be very intense and managing a mental health situation on top of the most intense programs is, can very easily break somebody. So, and it can also put some extra burden and responsibility on the other people involved. So true compassion is when you actually consider everybody, not just the person that you want to help. So when we put like let's say somebody with a mental health issue into a roommate situation, it's very important that those people actually agree to this, right? So we would like to ask mentors to please disclose your student's situation, of course after asking for their permission and always on a need-to-know basis. But please, always disclose it with the people who actually will end up being involved intimately in the situation, because otherwise it's very, very unfair to them. So that's what I want to share about this. OK, next topic. Yeah, so how to hold space with compassion to people, for people who are receiving a difficult teaching. So, I don't know if you know, but Samara hasn't been giving so many corrections to ST5s as he did to us when we lived in Bodywood. It was like every Thursday night, basically. And we were very compassionate to each other because we knew, today it's you, next week it might be me. So we were very nice to each other about it. But he didn't give so many corrections to ST flights, but in several cases people actually ended up leaving the school after these corrections. So I wanted to offer a few considerations about what we can do as mentors or just show them friends really, like when these people are really struggling with the correction. So in several cases, like the first complaint, several cases, not just one really, but like almost all of them, these people mentioned that they got yelled at based on incorrect information that somebody got from a third party. This is pretty common, actually, and the problem with this is that it makes it extremely difficult for the person to actually process the teaching, because they can use this as a shield between them and the teaching saying, nope, someone was wrong, it was all wrong. So what can we do to avoid that? When a third party gives information about someone else, it's usually incomplete or somewhat incorrect and then someone might remember also parts of it incorrectly, so that happens. But here's what you can do or what we can do to avoid this as much as possible. So when I was a yoga lead on BadBuddy, I had a very serious rule, which was that I never go to Samara complaining about my yogis. It's very important. Because when you go and complain, you present an opinion. And then if a person gets yelled at based on your opinion and based on you being annoyed with that person or something, that is unfair, I feel. So my role as a yoga lead was that I went to Sambhara always talking about that person as if I was talking about myself. And that's something that I would like to recommend to everybody, because this is also a very serious bodhisitta practice, exchanging yourself to the other person and sit there considering everything, giving facts and trying to understand how they must be feeling and what their suffering is. Someone never once yelled at anybody based on what I taught him in my yoga team. So maybe that person can avoid getting a rightful correction and maybe there are other ways to course correct them in a more gentle way. Sometimes it can be avoided though. And in that case, the second complaint that we got from several students again, is that senior students kind of start piling on it. So we stand up, stony-faced, next to Samvara, kind of staring at the person, basically projecting, you gotta accept this. And then they feel like we are ganging up on them. And it's kind of unnecessary. So when someone tells you a new one, you notice you have a new one, it's very hard to ignore it. So there is not much you can do as a senior student to kind of diffuse that teaching. I understand that's what people are usually concerned about, that maybe they will say something that will enable or like support a person's ego reaction and then they will accidentally diffuse this teaching. I don't think you can do for those people, you simply hold space for them with compassion. Make them feel that they are still loved, they are still accepted and they are going through this, you know, and we are there for them. So I did this for somebody recently and I was amazed how much difference, how little effort made. Because the person told me they reached out to me in people support email and they said that the fact that I responded to them saying, I'm sorry, you're having a hard time. Do you want to talk about it? That's solved 90 percent of the problem. And then when we talked and I gave them like a few gentle pointers about how they can process this teaching better, I think it was very liberating for them. So very little effort goes a very long way. Yes, Satori?

0:47:23
Hi. So just wanted to break the momentum for a second, do a quick time check. almost an hour in, 50-ish minutes in. I know you have two more topics. And so I hope all of you are still hanging in there. It's good that we spent one and a half hours. You know, maybe go grab a cup of water because there's some more good stuff coming. And then, yeah, so just hang in. I really just wanted to kind of break the momentum, get a little hearts out there. It's actually pretty cool to see all of you. I think we are like 51% at least on video. So that's super awesome. And yeah, we can get back to the topics. Oh yeah, one more thing. There's gonna be an outline. So if you feel like, you know, it's TMI, do not worry. Just please keep your heart open, roll with it, and we'll share some notes.

0:48:37
Thank you. Sorry about that.

0:48:38
Yeah, grab a sandwich or something. Okay, so that was about, you know, we need to be compassionate to the students about the restful teachings. And then the third one is going to be giving the right teaching to the right people at the right time. And someone actually talked about this when last time he had a task. I think he was like, don't give personal teachings, don't do this, don't do that. So yeah, so the right teaching to the right people at the right time. Yeah, so someone is a very impeccable teacher. And that's the problem, right? Because whenever he opens his mouth and gives a Dharma talk, it lands perfectly, right? So we are very used to that. And we might think that when we open our mouth and say something, that will also just be the perfect thing for the person at the right time. But that has not been the case, and in certain occasions, we successfully confuse students or really upset them. So we really want to avoid that. I wanted to mention, kind of like, maybe an easy to understand silly example of how the right teaching is. So the right teaching is like giving a birthday present to somebody. When you give a birthday present to somebody, you don't think about yourself and what would make you happy, but you think about the person and what would make them happy. It's so simple. It's like a selfless act when you want to make somebody else happy. So, personal example for that. Most of you know I used to have a bunny for like a long time. And I don't know if you know that, but that bunny was a gift from Raja, actually. And he read the audience correctly. Because imagine him bringing a bunny to you. Most people would throw the rabbit right back into his face, right? I didn't. He knew me. And I was actually very happy about that bunny for like eight years that we spent together. And I often thought about this whenever I saw him like curled up on the couch or like washing his ears, which is like the cutest possible thing a bunny can do. And I was like, wow, this is the best gift anybody has ever given me. Short disclaimer, Raja, please don't get ITS. Don't give me more animals. Thank you. So, but that's how the right teaching is. It's for the person and it's something that might transform them. So, it might be very boring to you to give another teaching about yoga or career or something, because it's something that we all know and then a hundred times yet again it's another teaching about that. But it's much more rewarding to actually watch somebody transform because of what you're saying than to give them a cool teaching that is beyond them and they won't even understand, which is the best case scenario. Sometimes, like, so, so, how do you know you actually gave a teaching that was incorrect. People start crying, they get really upset, they try to get away from you immediately. So this actually happened. Or they complain about the energies not being correct in your teaching or they feel physically ill, which can be anything from headaches to nausea, something like that. So we all need to consider when something like that happens, we can't ignore it. So we always need to think about the people we are giving the teaching to and we have to be super focused and very impeccable when we are teaching them something. It always has to be within our structure. So that's the other thing that we should never deviate from the structures of the school to teach something cool that has nothing to do with what someone has been teaching us. It's very risky actually to give something like that. So that's about that. And then now comes the sad part and the most intense part of this whole teaching So, we've had some sexual misconduct in the last few months and that's unacceptable completely. And this is the part where I'm not going to be Disney at all. And we have several cases where people basically preyed on newer students. So let me pull up the inclusive sangha training for you. I'm gonna try not going for the red foot akini, I promise. So as you can see from our Sangha training, we actually covered this part, where we asked certain things from all of you in America, please. I know we shared the slide deck with the Hungarians, but I don't know if they had a training so far. So, pursuing people, especially pursuing, we are talking about here, harassing people who you have power over, is very serious sexual misconduct which can ruin a person's path and also the reputation of our organization can make people feel very unsafe in our school and we can't stand by it at all as an organization. So here are the lists that we asked from you not to ever pursue or date. And in the cases, or one of the cases that came up, it was actually much worse than this, because, and I'm going to give you an example of what it is not, this is not what happened, actually, but I'm going to give you something that will help demonstrate what we will not tolerate. So, let's say you're a mentor, and then you have a student who doesn't have very strong finances, and then you end up paying for their airplane ticket to the Ansgar Bregel, right? So if you then, after your selfless giving, then tell them in the Ansgar Bregel, hey, want to share a room, want to express your gratitude, That's something that's preying on that student, manipulating them into a situation where they feel very indebted to you. So that's like something that as an organization we are not going to tolerate. And we wanted everybody to know that because honestly we didn't think that any such thing would ever happen but I'm sad to report that it has and going forward it will have some consequences. The other thing that we would like everybody to please avoid doing is not ever offer spiritual to someone to date you and never make sexuality part of your teachings. So sexuality as a part of teachings is not in the structure of our school and you're very free to do that if you're in your own school with your own students. So we would like everybody to please never, ever do that. So these are the things that I wanted to mention based on recent events. And sadly, we will now implement consequences for this. So if you prey on newer students and you abuse your position of power, as a senior student, you do not have to be their teacher or mentor or yoga lead or anybody. Based on your status in this school, being a children, you are in a position of power. So if you have this kind of sexual misconduct, of course we will hear everybody out. We did in these cases, too, that we received, we talked to all parties involved. But if we determined that your conduct was inappropriate, then you will be uninvited from all in-person sangha events, including casual hangouts, power trips, everything. You can still join on Zoom to teach. We are not going to exclude you from the school. If you hold any position of power in the school, such as teacher, mentor, yoga lead, dojo lead, sangha org, any sangha org position, you will be dismissed from that position. And here comes the most painful part of it. Your conduct and your name will be shared with the entire showdown group. And that's because we would like to make sure that all teachers and mentors can keep their students away from you. Yeah, so that's going to be it. Sorry about that. It's rare, thankfully, but it happened in the last few months. So. Yeah.

0:58:59
That's these are all the subjects that I had. All right. Thank you, the Kini. And thank you, all of you, too, for, you know, paying good attention to what we're sharing here. It's very, very important. I think what the key mentioned is that all of us are in a, like a position of power in the Sangha, just by being an advanced student. So, we have to be aware of that and take responsibility like Spider-Man did. Yeah, I think, let's shift over to Okay. I think, shift over to you we are on top of the hour, we have another 30 minutes per schedule.

0:59:50
That being said, we actually started 10 minutes late so we'll try to wrap and maybe keep another 15 minutes or such for QA. Yeah, thank you so sorry and thank you bikini and I know that pretty intense heavy topic at the end. And so I think it's just important that everyone acknowledges that it's something that we have to take seriously. And we're especially looking to just make sure that students' experience in this school is positive and safe. And hey, it's been very publicly shared that Rama as a teacher, you know, had sexual relationships with students and he was able to do that and that was his choice as a teacher and, you know, Sambara has shared that that is something that perhaps from time to time he may have done, but these are our fully enlightened teachers and, you know, for everyone who's in a position as I showed on, we're just being very very clear. You know, none of us have been authorized or empowered to experiment with that right. And if any of us are feeling really called to that as an aspect of our teaching, like, we're in that showed on path where we all like, find our unique expression of enlightenment. And so, so certainly one could do that outside of this school, right. And, and that's certainly an option and any of us may even have conversations with somebody about that and get some direct counsel if that's happening, like we shared, and I think there's over 40 showdowns who are taking roles in the Songha Org, and, you know, a lot of positive progress and really good things happening. So, these aren't the majority of what's happening, but they take a lot of time and energy to address. And, you know, and so it's just been a journey over the last couple months for us to all, you know, have these coming to us for the first time, and then and then working through those and so really appreciate everyone, you know, being here for this and acknowledging some of these challenges, and so over the next month as we go into the, you know, the summer solstice. I'd like to just share just three, three ways of being that if we can all really focus on can help us to stay unified really come together as shut ons and really model a lot of the behavior that we want. ST5s, ST6s, you know, our Bodhans, our intermediate students to really see and feel and connect to. So first is, let's please be kind to one another. I am certain that there's at least someone else in the Sangha who's doing something you don't like. It may very well be me. You know, and there's all kinds of stuff that we see and experience that we don't like, that might be painful to us or what have you. And what I've really observed is we have a tendency to be really harsh with one another when we don't like things or we talk about it to other people besides the person we're having a problem with. And it's not like, it's not like a, hey, let me work through this in a really compassionate way to get some advice to then go back to this person and like engage with them positively. We just kind of like talk shit or complain. And and we just have a habit of this. And as we're going through all the ups and downs of the advanced path and being in the world and everything, we're going to have lots of challenges, and we're going to have lots of frustrations, and we're going to see one another do things we don't like. Let's please be kind to one another. And then let's also be gentle in our communications, our corrections, how we're engaging with one another, how we're working with our students, and then be supportive. So if we can be kind, gentle, and supportive as we come together, we can just ask ourselves, hey, you know, a yogi didn't show up, or, you know, the song org hasn't given me an update in four weeks, or like whatever it is, if we can then be kind, gentle, and supportive as we express that communication, as we come together and work together. It's gonna just transform how we relate together and work together. So what I'd like to end with is just a one song Bodhisitta meditation. And so, you know, we can we can do this together. And then also just people have ideas for how showdowns can come together, be supportive ways that, you know, we can support for you or people that you're seeing, you know, it'll just be an open conversation. So sit up nice and straight and take a deep breath, think about the love we have for one another, for Sambar, for a path for enlightenment, and we'll just have one song and go to see the meditation.

1:06:11
so so So so so so so so so so you Thank you so much. I think it might be nice, I know I can use a quick five-minute break.

1:07:56
Not sure if I need caffeine or alcohol or definitely a bio break, but maybe a combination. But we want to be available to then stay on but then we've had a long morning so if anyone wants to drop off that's, that's totally cool. So, come back together at like four till four minutes until the top of the hour, and then just hanging out, Davey, yes. I'm just going to point out that Kali raised her hand so she might.

1:11:12
I'm sorry I didn't see it. Hey, Kali. Hey, thank you. I just want to say something really quick. I've been doing a lot of research and listening to what's out there in the world in spiritual communities. And what I wanted to say is that what we're experiencing is not unique to us as a Sangha and as a community. So these problems that we're raised today and that we're facing are not unique to us. And this was kind of a relief for me to understand and see and observe that as a Sangha, as a spiritual community grows, we have all sorts of challenges. And I actually really love the attention in this group today that everybody came together and is listening openly because that points to a willingness to address what's not working or what we can improve on and move in a more positive direction going forward. And I see that there's a lot of room to grow for us too. And what we are looking at in the Sangha org from different angles is kind of workshops that we can do together to expand our skill set as leaders. And as the Kini said, we're all leaders here. So this is the senior student body of this Sangha, this community, and there's always something we can grow as a person and as a leadership group. And, and as a, yeah, so in our spiritual practices, and in our personal practices, so we will be looking into what we can bring into the Sangha, to the short ends, in terms of kind of skill development, whether that's compassionate conversations active listening, and things like that because I think this will actually be fun and will elevate us to support our community better.

1:13:29
So that's all I wanted to add, and thank you all so much for being here and for for listening to this. Thank you, Kali. And sorry, but I'm in like a very unique flow with the Hungarian Sangha, with the teaching structure here. So I do have a thought, and we do share like thoughts after teaching. So just one thing is, you know, we have privacy and everything around these topics, but with the info that I received, there was like no bad intent from anyone, to my knowledge, whatever happens. So everything what happens actually happens with good intent. And so that's why we just need to, like, you know, get a mirror, get better, take these skills to a higher level. So I want to know that. Yes, thank you for mentioning that.

1:14:17
Actually, that's very important to have skill and to have heart. Because these are the two things that we need to want to improve and get better. Skill is something that we can improve if we have the heart. And I think we all have the heart, actually. So that's a good thing. We just kind of need to figure out how to tie them.

1:14:53
All right, five minute break.

1:14:56
It's 9.55 some places, so let's start again at the hour. All right, welcome everyone back. I think I learned this at some management training that there is no such thing as a five minute break, but we will try for it, and we'll get rolling. So, I added a couple of notes, we received three questions out of time in email. If I missed any beyond this. There might be some issue or they might have run to my junk mail, please resend and we'll cover it for sure. So the first question was, what are the top three priorities from the operations position. And actually I'm gonna say, talk about five. So we have four teams, you know, Dojo, Lee, Dojo team. I believe Jay already shared that there's a great collaboration going on, you know, setting up the structures for the Dojo org and aligning strategies, collaboration, etc. So that's definitely one. Eje, please feel free to add to that or correct. So that's one. The second one is, you know, student success. I would say the their top priority is the student journey. We heard about that already. Kali, feel free to add to that outreach, I would say the Buddha dojo rebranding, and I see that his hand up so that'd be.

1:17:02
Yeah, I just thought it might be a natural place for me to contribute the part that I wanted to share earlier. And so a lot of information about this is also going to be shared out to the showdown channel and follow up because I know it's it is important that everyone get these updates and I know now 10 people have left so we want to make sure that everybody's getting the same shared experience. So as it relates to outreach. doing that. It's also as best as we're trying to show it's not as a recoiling in any way or a from a place of being disempowered or dishonoring SF Awakened Mind or the Buddha Dojo and what those amazing teaching initiatives have created in our sangha. So really again want to underscore and highlight and acknowledge everyone who has participated in both of those expressions because look what it's created and look how many people have been able to join this lineage in school because of those. So it's really important that what we're doing is honoring that and naturally transitioning as the dharmas do move, that we just wanna show that we're keeping in step with that shift. So that's why we're taking down the marketing initiatives at this time and asking that we no longer use any of those terminologies in our online presences. Even if you have a personal, you know, Instagram or Facebook account, we'd request that you don't hashtag SFWakeandMind anymore, hashtag BuddhaDojo. Shen, I know you gave a beautiful teaching if you're still here. We will probably stop in introducing our satsangs as BuddhaDojo satsangs. It's not because we are totally, you know, branching away as of today but we want to start to show that we are focusing more inward and we're not necessarily using that platform to continue labeling ourselves in that language so just to, if we could have that as a precursor So we're making sure that language and understanding gets really clear to the, to anyone who's an active meditation teacher. So that's a really important focus right now is just to communicate proactively before we start making changes and keep everyone in the same understanding of why we're hearing feedback and making actions or adjustments, slight refinements, that the movies, for example, is an area which I know we, especially as students who have been around for a while, all love so much and love Sombra's teaching through that medium. We are going to do the, for those of us in Hawaii who can go to the movie in person on Tuesday, such a beautiful opportunity, but we won't be doing the online, the Zoom movies for a bit. We're gonna just dial that back just to refine it a bit more as well from the MCing experience to giving a little more context around maybe why we're watching the movies we're watching. So we'll just pause between now and the solstice and then look on how we're bringing those back after the solstice time. So just to give a heads up again, proactively as to why that is, it's just from a place of refinement and optimizing the experience. I know Rima is like, Oh, again, it's not a stopping it's just a recalibration and, and bringing in more participation from the MC channel. So people can really actively participate there. So, if you want to message me anything afterwards around that feel free. my contribution and yeah, thanks. Any questions, feel free to let me know.

1:21:17
Thank you, Debbie.

1:21:18
All right, so that's three of our top priorities. From an operations perspective, I think the most important one is data cleanup in our Salesforce instance, because from there we will have much more information that we can utilize for all sorts of purposes. And then the fifth one I wanted to mention is obviously reputation management. So there's a big focus across the Sango work teams, you know, handling reputation and that's the fifth one. I do have to say that I just sent out a summary to just the operations team where I tried to sum up the priorities and I had to stop at 10, like P1 topics. So I picked one out of 10, like super urgent and important topics that we're all working on. And it's kind of similar in other teams, I believe, too. So Jaya, Kali, whatever you raise your hands.

1:22:30
Oh, you want to go ahead.

1:22:33
Oh, go ahead, please. Okay, cool. Thank you. Um, so I just wanted to touch on a few parts of what David stories shared so one of the things that will certainly come up is we're taking down the new registration option within Buddha dojo for new students to come in. And, you know, we've gone through many cycles of song or we're open to new students and then you know we go for a while with the students we have and then, and then we reopen. We know that a lot of people are teaching meditation and you may have no new students who come to those classes and, you know, if you feel like they would be students who would, who would be able to plug in and connect with our song and you can really support them as a mentor and everything. I'll be working with the dojo leaders to just confirm how we'll want that to work to, you know, add students and but just as an example of the data cleanup project, you know, we kind of no integration. And so there's just no way for us to even keep track of who's in the song or where they are, what level, et cetera. So there's actually a pretty significant effort that, you know, Satori, myself, a number of other folks are working on to sort out those systems. So, and then along with the reputation management pieces, as we all know, you know, we've had some pretty negative and intense articles written about the Sangha and Sambara and Buddha Dojo. And while a lot of that has a lot of inaccurate information, there's also these aspects of the truth. I think Dakini talked about control being one of the things that's woven through that. And I mean, to give everyone just amazing positive teachings and and that's really what we want to focus on for the, you know, foreseeable future, which I mean, allows us to at least see forward at least a week or two, right. And then all that will maybe change, you know, when some bar comes back or what have you. But that's, that's a lot of what's driving all of that. And, and again, I will, I'll be following up with dojo leaders. So people are teaching meditation. And there's other friends from our past lives who need to join the school and study right now and we know we can support them well, we'll make sure to do that but it's not going to be an active push we're trying to drive as a song of collectively, or something we want to just have people trickling in online, you know, randomly.

1:25:28
Thank you.

1:25:29
what's going on in student success at a high level.

1:25:31
So Tara and Kana and team are doing a tremendous job mapping out the student journey, which you probably seen a couple of weeks ago. And if you haven't, you can listen to the recording. So it's really about supporting our students. And like I mentioned earlier, another thing we're really looking into is what we call right now leadership development from different angles, skill development for Shodan specifically. And another part that is currently not fully implemented in the work, but I am very inspired to, to make that go live is a replacement or a renewal of the teaching org. So we're going to call that the mentor, so anybody who mentors new students or younger students, and or does any sort of leadership role. So basically, this, this audience the showdowns. as leading the rest of the community, the rest of the Sangha. And yeah, so those are the big areas that are being worked on in the Understudent Success. And as well as Career Success, which we will also revive in some form or another. And we will be looking for support from all of you there as well.

1:27:16
All right, thank you, Kali.

1:27:18
I want to add a note that these are actually all the US Sangha operations and the US Sangha team. And so they're detached from our strategy and they have their own teams, etc, etc. Again, in collaboration with the J through some new structures now. So this is us focus. and you will see this coming in the showdown channel. So every week we will post a consideration for us as showdowns, a weekly consideration

1:27:49
that we can hold in our mind and in our heart

1:27:51
for that week leading up to the solstice, just to create more cohesion amongst us as a group. So be on the lookout for that. All right. So second question was, is our school open currently?

1:28:30
And I just checked buddhadojo.com, it is. And obviously we are talking about this topic. Look out for updates, please, if you're a teacher, there will be changes, some shifts and shuffling. And yes, we are open today.

1:28:46
All right.

1:28:48
So our question was about.

1:28:55
Ready to go.

1:28:57
So our question was about the medium article, and how we approach this. I believe we talked about this on both of the forums so the all Sunday satsang and here as well. If you seek more information, I'll be advised that you don't go online and click on these links that you find, because that will pull it up on the Google search. But please contact one of our support lines. I'm not sure which one. You can email me and I'll share it out later. So you can contact us and we have some screenshots and you can read everything in detail if you wish to. All right, anything to add to the school being open or this article from Debbie, Kali, Jaya, Zatini?

1:29:47
Well, I guess the one thing is like we could define open, right? By open, I would say that if there's someone that a meditation teachers working with is really on fire and connect with our school and we feel good about welcoming them in and you can be a strong mentor to them. trying to reach out to new students. And we will, like I said, no longer, like Dave shared, no longer have, sign a page on Buddha Dojo. And I think what Davey also alluded to is we're not ready to do a rebranding yet. I think we wanna wait until Sambara comes back and make progress over the next month on just a number of things internally that we can still improve. But over time, we will almost certainly phase out the Buddha Dojo as a brand or any kind of marketing vehicle, right? The intention of the Sangha org is no longer to be like Zen of work or Buddha Dojo or some externally focused growth path, but it's rather to have all the structures in place to support students to follow what we've all followed and to provide teachings of our school and support our sangha.

1:31:18
So, right, thank you and there's some notes in chat so you might have already read but please contact Tara in the reputation management team and she'll be able to share more details about this article or these articles. And I see there might be some potential conversations with maybe dojo leads or such. So please contact her for more. All right. that the people who have engaged in sexual improprieties won't repeat that behavior? And Bikini, I was thinking you'd be the best to answer this. So, great question, of course. So, like, in one case, several people had conversations

1:32:08
with one of the people involved, and that person did show remorse, and they understood that what they did was completely inappropriate. So that's, at the moment, that's the best we can hope for. In the other case, also, like, several people talked to that person, and I think the problem there was the person didn't understand that this was inappropriate. So we are definitely keeping an eye on this and this is exactly the reason why we implemented these consequences. We do not control what people do or say. Nobody can control that. The only control we have over is how we respond to these things. So now we have a framework to respond to these cases of misconduct immediately and we will follow up on this if it ever happens. So yeah, it's just, you know, like we didn't want to come down on these people without because how to say this, so I'm not a fan of punishing people out of the blue when we don't tell them in advance that there are consequences to whatever they are doing, right? So this is why we are implementing this framework, because now everybody can make intelligent informed decisions about if they want to take an action or not. So, that, that's the idea.

1:33:50
But yeah, there were several very serious conversations with these people. And I would just also add, if we felt like there was a serious risk of recurrence in either of these cases, we would, we would have acted even more strongly. But after thoroughly reviewing them and everything, just like the key said, we don't feel like there's a likelihood of this happening again with these folks. And now everyone's also clear around both the policies and the fact that there will be the consequences in terms of how one would be able to stay involved in the school. And so I think that's just important to make sure we're all clear on.

1:34:28
Okay, so there's two notes.

1:34:32
One, I received a question going forward. The question is, are we going to start having forums in the general SATSANs going forward? I see there's another conversation in the public chat. So we'll also talk about that. So the question is, are we going to start having forums in the general SAT science going forward? I know there is, Ajay, Kali, you are on the teaching review board. Can you share some info about this? Yeah, Tara would be the best person to speak to this.

1:35:05
I don't know if Tara, you want to add something? something. But we will try to address issues that come up and maybe we won't call it every time a transparency forum, but Satsangs will be addressing and talking and casting light on issues that have been coming up. So today we tied heartfulness as a topic into what's going on or what was the topmost concern. And I think we've all received many dharmic teachings as well as tools to address things that may crop up. So as teachers or whoever's teaching the All Sanghasat Sangha, I don't think it would be very difficult to really, from a place of stillness, talk to these topics. And if we do need to speak specifically to something, then yes, that will be addressed as well in a forum kind of setting at the end of satsang as well. And Tara is saying in the chat that it was actually a request from Sambara that we address these points in the all-sangha satsangs.

1:36:20
All right, thank you. And then I see your question and point to get just one contact to the song or again and route responses from there. And I believe info ferry is mandatory staying is a good way to go on slack. I right now, to my knowledge we don't have one central email, and there's multiple questions and comments coming in about how we build wiki pages communicate better share updates etc etc. I like the proposal on the chat again. Yeah, we will come up with one point to contact. Unfortunately, there's just way too many things going on right now, and we have to address those before we can actually come up with an email, I guess. So you can imagine, we are not bored. We got it, it's on our list. Yeah, can I just add to that, Satori?

1:37:29
Just because as you just mentioned that. And as we transition away from Buddha dojo we do need to then yeah all the handles email addresses need to change we still have a seven week in mind emails so there is a timeline of just how do we move. Do a new email address in the appropriate naming. would go to like the keys group right like that confidentiality will always stay separate from info fairy general inquiry things, but yes there could be maybe at least two channels, and then there could be further routing but it is important that these things that the keys and saying are coming in confidential confidentially remain in that in a separate lane. Yes.

1:38:21
All right, thank you. And there was another question on the general chat about sharing information about the org. There's already answers. The answer is yes, we will share the org chart. We are actually mapping everyone who is in the org right now. And I think we'll definitely call out the lead leadership roles. Okay, so you know who to turn to. Okay, there's another question here to me privately. Can we make sure that not all satsang turns into a transparency forum slash problem addressing event. It can dissipate the energy of the teachings easily. Also, brand new students might not need that. So yeah, good, good note and good question. I believe we will have to focus on, you know, maintaining the energy and the teaching topic for all of our satsangs. So whoever is leading satsangs or teachings are going to have to be focused on this, I say. I don't know if we have the flexibility to dodge questions on satsangs, so if this is the request that we have transparency and Q&A, then we will have to address questions in the spirit of the teaching. That's my answer. So we'll see

1:39:57
how this works out on the long run, obviously. I would just say I think it is a really good point I think all of us, you know, might have, you know, a desire and tendency to solve problems and so I think even buddy Dharma chat earlier said hey there's a lot of really good things happening in the song and song or etc and we're just focusing on a lot of these problems and so that is totally a balancing act that I don't know that we could get perfect. You know, even if, even if I don't, I don't think there's the path to get it perfect, but I think holding the awareness in our mind that there are some students who will be going online researching coming across some of these articles, and if we don't address it in certain ways it's from a very And then not just like obsess that someone out there doesn't like us or someone had a bad experience or whatever and we really want to focus on sharing Garmin helping people just continue to progress on the path and have an awesome experience. because it's also how Rama would address things previously, like when there were these things, it's addressing them directly. Even if people weren't aware of them, it creates an element of trust.

1:41:26
And while it might educate people of things they didn't know about, it shows that we are not hiding things or that we can provide appropriate context around things that are being brought up. Secondly, I wanted to just mention, because it's happening in the chat, the rebranding, yeah, again, Bodhi Dharma mentioned, but we really want to not focus on what's next until we're addressing things internally. So, Sambhar is aware of that, and we just want to ask your partnership that, you know, it's not a rinse and repeat or we just changed our name but it still has some of the disconnects that exist.

1:42:39
So,

1:42:43
I thank you. questions on the general chat, which we already addressed. I just wanted to add one note there is that there's a very dedicated team of who's dealing with the reputation management right now. You know, they consider pretty much all of these aspects. We also got some of these questions before. And yes, Sambar is also included in building the strategy and the tactics around how we handle all of this information. All right, and that's where we are. It is also, we are 30, 28 minutes in. I would probably say let us wrap, finish today for today. Somewhere it's, you know, middle of the day, somewhere it's middle of the night. And if you have some questions, we will share a post on Slack or actually the support, the new Unity app

1:43:52
with the contacts you can reach to

1:43:54
and then you can contact the appropriate teams from there. Thanks everyone for a beautiful...

1:44:04
Before we wrap up, sorry. So this was kind of like a new idea from us to share kind of like not a digest really but like takeaways from people's support which we've never done before and you know someone was handling this before. I wonder, it would be nice to get feedback if this is something that we would want to do recurrently or something. If it's helpful for this group to find out how, you know, new students are doing and so on. So it would be good to get some feedback about that. I figured you guys can reach out to me or the people support team.

1:44:51
Okay, and then maybe just give us a couple of more days to share this info out to get a little aligned and will probably propose some next steps for collaboration as well. that. I still question if we would want to meditate together. I say, raise your hand real quick if you want to stay. And if you need to drop, feel free to drop. I hope you still have five minutes to pop in a song from the album you're listening to. And maybe any You know, Connie Debbie, anything else. I just thank you everyone this is so beautiful and it was really nice to you on camera so thanks for those of you that did that very heart filling.

1:45:42
And I would just say that, you know, one one thing that's occurred to me is like, like things can feel really hard like last night I was like totally losing my shit.

1:45:51
But then when I see a few other folks like you all, it makes me really happy and I feel connected again. And so we're gonna try and do kind of monthly showdowns and events and stuff like that, but there's nothing to keep us from just, hey, I'm gonna meditate on Thursday at 5 p.m. if anyone wants to dial in, and then we can chat after if anyone wants to, or just thinking about ways we can connect. And it doesn't have to be all sangha, it doesn't have to go through all sangha comms and everything but just figuring out ways we can connect I think that, at least for me, the pandemic plus my own introversion has has gotten me kind of into the habit of being a hermit, and so you know there's just, you know, I'm, I'd love to see anyone who wants to connect a little bit more even if it's just a 15 minute meditation or something like that.

1:46:49
So, anyway.

1:46:50
Love you guys very much.

1:46:51
Thank you. All right.

1:46:53
Yeah. Thank you. Thanks everyone again. Let's do this super awesome Heartfulness Month ahead of us. And then Jaffa, are you good to play a song for us?

1:47:08
Yes.

1:47:09
Thank you.

1:47:10
Let's do it.

1:47:11
Thank you. So Hey, hey, hey so You You Thank you, everyone.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
