0:00:00
Good morning, good evening. My name is Atman. I'm one of the advanced or showdown students of Sambara. And while he's away until the summer solstice, some of his showdown students will be bringing you teachings on the same schedule that you're already used to. Today, it's going to be Maat and I telling you about balance and experiencing it together. So let's begin with meditation. We're going to listen to one song. Let's bring our focus to the heart. Let's begin.

0:00:35
the the the so so so so so So So Wonderful. So last month, Samvara has talked about the gift of impermanence on the equinox, and he explained in his teaching how everything is impermanent. Things always change, that's just the natural way things are, but there's a gift innate in it that we can access if we do spiritual practice, if we meditate.

0:02:35
And that gift is the eternal mind. So impermanence, if you meditate, it brings you into the state of unity, where you're in the eternal mind, always in unity. And that really is balance. The eternal mind brings you balance. So today we're going to discuss balance, what it is, and how we can get to it. Balance is very important, believe me, because this one time I lost my balance. I was on an up escalator and I fell down. It was the most humiliating two hours of my life. So I want to spare you from this. So let's talk about balance. In a nutshell, balance is happiness. Let's see what that means. When we talk about balance here today, or happiness, we mean spiritual balance and spiritual happiness. Not transient versions of this, but the continuous happiness, the forever balance, just being always balanced. Not the balance of opposites, but coming into a deep spiritual balance. Because for example, if we look at happiness, what most people would consider happiness is you want something and then you get it. Like, you want money and then you get it and you should be happy. Or you want fame and then you get it and that should make you happy. We know that that's not the case. We see movie stars, famous musicians, or just very wealthy people. It's good to have money, don't get me wrong, but that by itself doesn't make you happy. We see them very often become depressed, have substance abuse problems, and sometimes they take their own lives. So, that's not what we mean here by happiness. What we mean by happiness is always being in balance, regardless of circumstances. So it's not circumstantial balance, it's being always in balance. I have a story to illustrate this, true story. I went to a high school in Hungary, where they taught business as part of high schools. It was kind of special. And a lot of wealthy people sent their kids there to study, which means it was a very varied crowd. And one of my classmates, she was the daughter of this very wealthy businessman in Hungary. And there was a student exchange program, so super rich family, and they took in an exchange student from Ecuador. He wasn't particularly wealthy. And one day, the Ecuadorian guy is hanging out at their house because they're away somewhere on vacation, and they come home, and everybody is in distress. The whole rich family is super upset. And the guy is like, oh, my God, what happened? This is horrible. And first, they don't even want to tell him, because it's so horrible news, and they're so shocked. It turns out that their helicopter broke down. And they were completely devastated about it. And this was somehow late at night. So Nick Votherian and I was like, oh, OK, cool. I'm going to go back to sleep. See you all in the morning. Happiness. So, you know, even with a fancy helicopter, it doesn't make you happy because then it breaks down and it's a devastating loss. So instead, what we mean here is lasting balance. So let's look at the difference between external balance and an internal balance, it's a balance of opposites. I'm very cold, I'm going to put a jacket on. Now I have my jacket on, I'm too hot, I'm going to start eating ice cream. This is good, but that's not what we're talking about today. What we mean by balance is a deep spiritual balance. For example, I used to go to martial arts. I was studying Judo in Silicon Valley from this great sensei, Sensei Lorin. Silicon Valley Judo. He's a fifth degree black belt and an outstanding martial artist. And the reason I like, I really especially like him is because he has very good balance, both physically, because he's a Judo sensei, but also spiritually and emotionally. He's a businessman. He runs his own business. I assume it's very stressful running your own business. And six days of the week, he then goes and teaches Judo. So he puts on his gi, is super happy about teaching Judo, and for an hour and a half, almost every day, he works with people, teaches them Judo, and progresses them through. He has like a handful of black belts. He's a great guy. And sometimes he does sparring. In Judo, sparring is you have to get the other person off balance, and then you win. He's basically impossible to get out of balance, both physically and also just in general. And I always try to trick him to do because that's how we win in judo. I could never. Sometimes he's gracious enough to make a reasonable mistake and then you can take him down. But by regular judo means he's basically unbeatable, fifth degree black belt. And when I'm not sparring with him, I observe him how he spars with others. I'm like, how does he do that? And he looks like a pyramid. His energy looks like a pyramid. He's a bigger guy, but not overweight, not anything special physically. But his energy is like a pyramid. So if you ever try to tip over a pyramid, it's not very tippable. capable. And the reason I found this so interesting is because he developed this, he's not born a fifth degree sensei, he developed his balance through a lot of work and attention and and by his practice. And, and in the end, he gained a lot of balance, both physically and in his personal life. I think this is something we can all learn from, to have inner balance, which you had a lot of. And then this can also manifest at work. In the last six years I spent, I was working at two different Fortune 500 companies. One of them, the first one, a lot of attention on balance. And the second one, they were very serious about balance. They're like, hey, we want people to be balanced. It's in the company culture, it's in our team culture to be balanced. And it was a very different work experience. It's the same job, the same things. In one job, people got stressed out, burnt out, quit, every two years. And at the second job, people are balanced. We get stuff done and we do the work, but we're balanced about it. It makes a huge difference. There was a study about it, Headspace, one of the meditation apps. They conducted a study, they do giant corporate rollouts to help people do their work and use meditation to be balanced at work. And they did a study and they found that even from one meditation session, there was a 22% increase in focus. I'm like, that's great! In meditation you focus, at your job you focus, so it makes sense that they complement each other. So how do we get to balance? This sounds great, you know. How do we get there? It's really a natural outcome of spiritual practice. When we do our spiritual practice, it just automatically leads to balance. When you meditate, you bring the focus to the chakra. Did I feed my dog? Bring the focus back to the chakra. And every time you bring the focus back to the chakra, it's an act of balance. It's a unit of balance. And the more you do it, it's like a muscle that you train. It will become second nature and very natural to just always be in this balance. If something happens, I come back to the center. And it's not a dualistic thing, you're not fixing it from a side, it's always the same center that you come back to. Balance. It's the same thing in mindfulness. We're like, balance is like a roly-poly. You know that walking toy? It has a big weight at the bottom. If you tip it over, it comes back up. If you tip it over, it comes back up. Because there's a weight at the bottom. That's how we want to be in balance, to always come back up and to always come back to the same balance. You can do anything to role deploy. You can be mean to them, you can yell at them, try to push it over, put it up in a snowstorm. It'll always be ending up in balance. Or a sailing boat. Oh, it has a big sail and the wind pushes it. Naturally, it would just tip over, but because there's a big wave underwater that you can't see, that wave keeps it upright. And because of that, it can use the wind as a momentum. So we want to be like a sailing boat, to be always grounded in this balance. And it comes from meditation. It also comes from karma yoga. spiritual practice of doing work, doing your job as a spiritual practice, that also leads to a lot of balance. It's like training the muscle. But it's a very natural outcome. So as long as you remind yourself to keep coming back to balance, it will happen very naturally. Just like the inner light of meditation transforms us, when you meditate, you experience light, or brightness, or sometimes a stillness. That stillness is balance. And the more time you spend in there, the more you meditate, it will transform you. It's a very natural thing that just comes from meditation. Just like if you go to a foreign country, let's say. When you go to France, you come back a little Frencher. You eat a croissant, you're like, oh, it's pretty good. It affects you. When you go into meditation every morning and every evening,

0:17:35
it affects you.

0:17:36
You become, in meditation, there's stillness, there's a brightness, and you also become more still and more bright. And if you go to France every morning, you'll find yourself French one day. This is how balance works, too. It's a very natural outcome. A good personal example that I like to bring up is my stuttering. Fun fact, I used to have a debilitating stutter, which comes from an anxiety. It's an imbalance. It's a rigidity of the mind. Imbalance. And I tried fixing it through various standard means. It didn't work. But meditation and mindfulness, it balanced it out of me. There's a balance that we experience from meditation. It just washed it away. So now I can deliver talks like this. It's also if you ever practiced snowboarding or surfing or skateboarding, it's a very similar thing. When you try to be rigid, it's important to not fall off of those things because it hurts

0:19:00
you.

0:19:01
So, a lot of people tense up on their boards. But if you tense up, it's not going to work out. You have to be very fluid on your board. And that's how we want to be in balance. We want to be flexible and change. That's what balance brings us to. Flexibility and change. My judo sensei that I talked about, he had flexibility and change. Because when I tried to tip him over, to tip over a black belt, you have to push them one And that's how you can trick them. Not him! Because he was very flexible in change. He was so fluid and so powerful that no matter what trick he tried to apply to him, I personally couldn't get him out of balance.

0:19:49
And that's how we want to be.

0:19:50
That's where balance brings us to. A flexibility in change. When a bad thing happens, or a good thing happens, or just a change, an upsetting change that happens. We want to be flexible in that. This is the great gift of balance. This is why it's significant to have balance, because then we can be flexible in change.

0:20:16
So balance is very natural.

0:20:19
It's a perfectly normal outcome of meditation. And it's also a conscious choice that you make every day in your mindfulness. Every day in your mindfulness, you want to come back to balance. Every day, when you find yourself out of balance, make a choice to come back to balance. And now, we're going to hand it over to Maat, who will talk about some of the higher aspects of balance.

0:20:54
Hi everyone, my name is Ma'at, and today I'd like to talk about an aspect of balance that I like to call

0:21:01
right balance. So what is right balance? Well, right balance is just taking two things and combining them. So the first would be balance, which Aumin just beautifully spoke about. And the second aspect would be right. Right doesn't mean that there's a wrong in this case. It just means that it's aligned to something higher. Think of like right livelihood or right view from Buddha's Eightfold Path. So right balance is really just aligning to something higher to find balance within that. Why is this important for us to learn? Well, most of the world views their life in duality. Somebody might really not like their job, they might hate their job. So instead of resolving that, they go on vacation. They leave, they still might hate their job. They just might have a tan at that point, right? They're not actually looking at the deeper aspect or what they need to resolve. They ping-pong between experiences and they stay within duality and think of balance as running from one experience to another. But as yogis, we seek to connect to a higher intent in what we do. Rather than run away, we stay within that experience. We look at that imbalance. We look at the cause of our discomfort. And we look at something to give it a higher purpose. So how can you experience right balance? Well, today I'm going to talk through a few practical steps and use examples from three worlds that are very special to our Sangha that help us to go beyond ourselves. And those worlds are nature, music, which is very magical, and art. So the first step to getting into right balance or to experiencing right balance is stopping and seeing the truth and accepting that truth. So balance is one of the most difficult things because it's overlooked and underestimated. A lot of people assume that balance will just happen, but it's really something that you have to honestly take a look at your life, look at those imbalances, areas where you may have conflict, and really understand what that is. Look with not just your eyes, but also with your heart, and understand where are those areas that you have conflict, that you're getting angry, or upset, or sad. And then understand those imbalances and take action to resolve those. If you're not sure how to do this, nature is one of the most beautiful teachers in seeing truth and understanding that deeper connection. So, I have a story. Recently, I went to Colorado, and I was in a place with snow. And if you know me, you know I do not like snow. I am not a cold weather person. I'd rather be on a beach. I'd rather be in somewhere nice and sunny and warm. And so I always made these excuses whenever I was in a cold place to not go anywhere near snow. But as I was in these beautiful places of nature, I started to slow down my thoughts of, oh, I don't like this, I don't like that, I'm too cold, you know, just being crabby in my own head. And I started to really look at the beauty of snow. I started to see the snow on the trees. I started to feel sort of the stored power in the snow. You look at water, it's a flow. There's a power within it. But within snow, it's encapsulated, right? So it's the stored power. And I started to see how it was melting and flowing into a river and sort of enlivening the place that I was at. So I really stopped, saw the truth of the experience, accepted that I just had this story in my mind, and I got a very warm jacket and boots, and I started to crunch around in the snow. And what I realized is I just had this storyline that I was preventing myself from experiencing this truth. I had this imbalance about an experience, but nature really helped me to understand that in a deeper way. And once I had the right gear, once I saw the experience and got the right gear to be within that experience and accepted that those would help me, I had a really magical meditation sitting in the snow. It was a very So, another experience. So, there's a national park in Africa, called volcanoes National Park, similar to Hawaii National Park but not the same. So, recently I was watching this documentary. And within this park. There used to be a lot of conflict in this area. It was an area where they started cutting back a lot of the forest or the jungle. It's an area that's very special animals. And so in seeing that imbalance and accepting that if they kept doing certain practices like cutting down forests and building farms in that area, they decided to create a line, a place of balance. It was a rock wall, and farmers could only come up to that wall to, you know, build out their farms. And after that it was all beautiful forest and beautiful jungle. of nature. It doesn't necessarily follow our rules or what we want. And so those animals would start to go into the farms and eat the potatoes or whatever was in the farm. And in realizing this as well, the government started to subsidize those farmers. So if their farms ended up, you know, picked away by gorillas or monkeys, they would still receive the same money, they wouldn't be out in their farming practice because of this experience. And in doing so they created a balance within the area. They understood that animals are going to do what they're going to do and they needed to farm so they created something and decided on something that would fix the imbalance within the area. So seeing and accepting the truth helps you to really understand where are those areas where you can create those boundaries or create those areas of unification to really get you past imbalance. All right, so the next step. So here we're gonna go into the world of music. And here, the second step is learning to work with life. So after you see and accept the truth, you have to learn to work with life. And music is really this thing where, even if you're a novice, even if you're not a musician, if you hear something out of balance in a piece of music, you feel that, you can understand that there's something that's not right within that music, even if you don't understand chords or notes or whatever it may be. And in our study, we listen to music during meditation because it helps us, it's a grander experience, it helps us to bring us beyond ourselves, it brings us outside of ourselves. So we're not just stuck in our thoughts or angers or whatever experience we may have. And an example of learning to work with life similar to working with music is a conductor. So I recently went to a symphony and they were playing a concert of Mozart, which is really, really beautiful music, very complex music. And the conductor that I was watching, before the actual piece started, they wheeled out this huge piano right in front of the orchestra. And the conductor came out, introduced himself, and then sat down at the piano and started to play. And during his piece, he was very focused on playing the piano, very focused in what he needed to do in that moment. He was working with the experience and the music. And then at a certain point, he would stand up, and then he would conduct the rest of the symphony. He would listen to the imbalances, harmonize the music, make sure that certain pitches were right. But he was working with that experience. He also stayed within the piece. He understood the piece, and he understood all the different elements of the music. So he was working with all of those different elements and also understood the balance of having the focus, hands to keyboard, just like we would do at work, focusing internally, making sure that his piece was balanced, but then he would stand and assist and do his, his job as a conductor as well. So if we think of this, if we think of this experience. Life is going to happen, things are going to come in your way. things that might try to throw you off balance, but if you think of your life as music and you work as a conductor in balancing those pieces and working with them, you can really build a beautiful symphony out of your life and have a really beautiful experience, even when things come your way that may not be expected. All right, so the last step, so seeing, accepting the truth, learning to work with life, the last step is learning to transform imbalance. And for this, we're going to talk a little bit about art. So life, like I mentioned, is never going to be perfect. There's going to be things that come up, but how will you ever know that your practice is working if you don't have these areas of imbalance? How will you be able to know that your bodhicitta or your karma yoga or the things that we learn within our practice are working unless these things come up, right? It's sort of a pop quiz, a test, right? But you can actually use these areas of imbalance and find these areas of imbalance and use them as an indicator to places that you can actually work with and become brighter and higher and align those to something higher, like in right balance, and become brighter and more effective in your life because of it. So one art that is very, very special to our study is martial arts. And think of art as just taking the unformed and bringing it into form. So when you're working on your katas or your, you know, punches and kicks and your structure, you're really bringing power and balance into expression. A few years ago, I used to do Brazilian jiu-jitsu, which is really fun. And at the time I met a champion martial artist. She was amazing. I would roll with her and she just was fantastic. She just always had an understanding of places where you can attack or work with. And I asked her about this and she told me a story that at a certain point during her practice, she reached a point where she felt stalled. You know, people would find these places where she would transition from one move to another and attack at that point. Right. So as she was transitioning from one attack to another, they would find a weakness in that transition or an imbalance within that. And they would use that against her. And so by seeing this, accepting the truth that this is a place where she was weak, learning to work with her practice in life. She saw this imbalance, and she practiced on attacks she could do during those transitions. So she no longer had an opening, and she was much stronger and being able to practice her jujitsu and she became a champion jujitsu practitioner which is amazing. So finding those places and balance it doesn't mean they're bad, it doesn't mean it's something that you push away or run from and right balance, we take those, we learn from them we understand them we understand where that imbalances, and we work with that to become higher and brighter. this really beautifully. It's a Japanese pottery art called kintsugi, and I hope I'm pronouncing that right. I'll ask Xochitl about this afterwards. But, so kintsugi means golden joinery, and essentially what it is, is you take a broken pot or broken cup, and instead of throwing it away like most people would, seeing that there's an imbalance in this broken pot, you take all of the pieces and you meld them with gold. So it's no longer a broken cup, it's a cup with golden joinery that makes it that much, it just transforms it into something really beautiful, something beyond what it would be before or just throwing it away. And in this we can take a look at those areas where we might feel they're broken and have developed this art of embracing areas where we might think are imbalanced or damaged and create these really beautiful experiences and almost artwork from transforming that. So I'd like to conclude with one last story. So, once upon a time, there was a little girl. And this little girl was terrified of talking to people or speaking to people or talking in front of a group. This girl used to run away from all of those different opportunities. And even in middle school, she would, anytime that there was a class presentation, she would pretend she was sick, or even one day, she pretended like she lost her entire voice for a whole day, just so she didn't have to present, you know, a science project in front of her class. But the same little girl found a community, she found a sangha, she found something that lit her up. She found Dharma practice. She found something that had a higher intent, something that really helped her to move past this fear. And that little girl is sitting in front of you today giving this Dharma talk. Having aligned with something higher, aligned with Dharma, she's able to give presentations like this even if she feels afraid. And in doing that, you can too. You can find those areas of imbalance that may put you in places of fear or places of anger or prevent you from doing things that you've always wanted to do. But with right balance, just align with something higher. Find something that really lights you up. For me, that's dharma practice and sharing that. For you it may be something completely different, but find that in your yoga, in your martial arts, in your dharma practices, and it'll really help to transform your life into something very magical. All right, so to conclude, we're going to do a one-song meditation focused on the third eye, so between your eyebrows and just a little bit above. So sit up nice and straight and I'm going to do a demonstration of right balance. So focus on your third eye and let's begin.

0:38:12
so so so so so Thank you. Hopefully. All right. Well, thank you so much for your time and attention. Have a wonderful weekend, and we'll see you soon. Have a wonderful weekend, and we'll see you soon. Take care.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
