0:00:00
Hi everybody, welcome. Okay, so we're going to begin with a one song meditation. We're going to focus on the third eye. Okay, so sit up nice and straight and let's begin.

0:00:18
So the the the the the the the the so so so you

0:01:48
All right. So, yesterday and the day before, very important, very important after the solstice in this new way, the Asura school, for the Shodons to be, you know, very focused, to understand what's going on, understand what your requirements are in the school, what your opportunities are in the school. Today I'd like to talk about the Maha Mandala more and then also give you more information about it and also make sure that you're directed as a shodan to knowing what you're doing in the school, what the Maha Mandala is Tantra. And Rama always said, I teach Tantra. I teach Tantra and mysticism. He always said that. I teach Tantra and mysticism. And so the Mahamandala is not a new thing. It's my code word for Tantra. So Tantra is the basis of everything in this school. Tantra means that everything is enlightenment. Everything that you do, everything in your life is enlightenment. Tantra is looking at your life and all the really crazy things going on in it and seeing that it all is liberation. Tantra is seeing that the good and the bad come together. It's the reconciliation of opposites and it is the ultimate expression of unity. So the foundation of the school is Tantra. So Rama So, Rama always said this is a tantric school. This is a tantric school of Buddhism. But he also said in the same breath that this is the school of mysticism. So mysticism is, you know, it's the, you know, the transmissions, the empowerments, the initiations, all of those structures of power that are so helpful. Those are like the most useful tools for a student. It's like, without transmissions, empowerments, and initiations, a student doesn't understand Tantra. They don't see that enlightenment is in everything. They see things as good and bad and they can't reconcile those things as being enlightenment. So Tantra is the basis of all things. Enlightenment is in everything, everything that we do. That's the foundation of the school. Mysticism is the powerful, it's what we call our secret sauce or our original recipe, you know, whatever. You know, it's like, it's that special thing that actually makes things work. So mysticism is when we take like yoga or career or martial arts or scuba diving, any of the disciplines of the school, when you start doing transmissions in it, empowerments in it, initiations in it, that's what really makes a yoga a yoga. That's what makes someone's career actually take off. That's what makes someone like really, you know, strong or see the strong in martial arts or see the dimensions of amazing enlightenment in scuba. So this is tantric mysticism. The mandala is only on the tantra side. And then you as shodans are, what I want you to master is I want you to master the enlightened expression of mysticism. Be that Buddha. I used to do this all the time. I was like the Buddha of transmission, the Buddha of empowerment, the Buddha of initiation. I was very focused on the mystical aspect. And that will get you very, very, very far. It will bring you way up. So master those things. I just want you to understand that the Mahamandala is Tantra. I won't say Tantra, I won't call it Tantra to the Sangha. I'm not going to say Tantra at all. You know why? It freaks people out. You know, Rama used to say that in the 80s and somehow he got through with it. Oh, he had all sorts of trouble because of it. But I'm not going to say Tantra yoga. I'm going to say the Maha Mandala. But it is Tantra. So when I say Maha Mandala, it's not a new thing. It's something, it's Tantra. It's something that you guys have been learning since the first day you entered the school.

0:10:29
It's tantra.

0:10:30
But I call it the Mahamandala. Now, the Mahamandala is really, it's tantra, but it is a tantra yoga that was the level of my teacher's practice. He, of course, taught Tantra, but he also did his own yoga of Tantra. And, you know, the New York yogis call it the Kalachakra Yoga, even though they mixed Shingon in it. But that's what they call it, the Kalachakra Yoga. And I, you know, for a long time, I mean, with them I call it the Kalachakra Yoga. They have a lot of analogies of mandalas, because it is a mandala. But since they taught me this yoga, and they taught me to master this yoga and to be able to, you know, use this yoga. I've created the Mahamandala. It is tantra. It's the same tantra that you've learned since the first day you walked into the school, but it is... I created it anew. A new way, a new accessibility to Tantra, to understanding the reconciliation of opposites and unity and the foundation of all spiritual practice. So this isn't a new thing, but this I'm all like, oh, let's, let's, it, you know, enlightenment keeps unfolding and, and tantra keeps re-reforming, changing, opening, refining, and the Mahamandala is my refinement. It is my, my, my way of like kind of showing this, you know, I'm, I'm this, doing this yoga, so I created this way of the yoga. I shifted the mandala to create the mandala. It's true. So one of my students while I was in Europe said, what exactly is this mandala thing? Let's take a real life example. And then she's like, okay, so for example, I'm doing a remodel in my house and my contractor is failing because he's got some problem with his health and problems with his relationships and problems with getting his driver's license or something like that. All sorts of things come up with this guy so that he can't finish the remodel and she's like how does the mandala help me there I'm like okay good good easy so here's the thing there's that mandala of a big beautiful circle and you have a place in When you are in balance in that place, everything works out. So how do you become... So the first thing that you want to do is become balanced in the mandala. So what do you do to be balanced? Well, you let go of frustration. You let go of anger. You have patience. um you let go of you know like an expectation of a return you let go of attachment um and then when you when you can let go be balanced then you you fall into balance in this greater structure of the vandala and then when you're in that balance, then all sorts of awareness is open to you. You can say, oh, now that I'm in balance, I can look at this contractor, and maybe it's words that you say, insights that you have, advice to give, maybe it's just your your energy and your aura, but that contractor will be affected by it and the contractor will figure things out and get the job done. So and then yet you can't have an expectation on what it's going to be like. You can't control it. You have to be detached. So it might take longer, but it will get done. That's the flow of Dharma. See, that's the flow of Dharma. That's the way. And actually, if you consider those things of how you become balanced in the mandala, it's not different than anything else that you've ever learned in the study. To be detached, no expectation on what you're going to get, to not have desire, to not be frustrated, to be patient, or even have compassion. These are the things that get you balanced in the mandala so that you can use the power of the mandala. But these are all the basic things of the study. So there's really nothing new. It is So the mandala is, it doesn't mean that, it's not some new thing where you like use the mandala and then everything works out. But of course it is, but it's a new thing where you use mandala and everything works out, but it's not like some new thing. This is exactly what we've always done, but in a new way. It's a new structure and a second attention, a new facility to do the same thing. And it's a good way. Like, let's say, you know, I don't know, like our vehicle of Tantra was a Mercedes. And like, oh, let's drive Mercedes, boom, boom, boom. You gotta like drive it, you know, get used to it and all that stuff. And then I can come back and I'm like, okay, well, let's, you know, you know, now, now let's do Ferrari. Because I don't know, that's, that's what I want to do. It's a car, it's a vehicle. There's a lot of different things about a Ferrari. It was like little, those little paddle things and little different shifter and it goes fast, really fast, you know, stuff like that. So there's different vehicles, different methods and different ways. So the Mahamandala, it is a really, really wonderful way of accessing that essential tantra.

0:18:28
It's very, very important.

0:18:30
But whether you're driving a Mercedes or a Ferrari, you still gotta drive, right? So some people were thinking, wow, when you do the mandala, everything just happens for you, right? And I'm like, yeah, it's a good way of thinking about it. But the mandala is, it's really setting up the second attention. It is like perfectly creating the second attention. And then you have to focus on the first attention. So first attention. So first attention, second attention, always in a balance. Maha mandala is always the second attention. It is the essential aspect of spirit. And we create it in a form of the mandala. Doesn't have to be a form. But this is the way that we're doing it. And it's a huge step up when you access the second attention in this structure. I'm teaching a more advanced structure in the second attention.

0:19:52
It's mandala.

0:19:53
And then when things are formed in the second attention, then you have to do them in the first intention. So it's not like in your mind you set the the mandala and then all of a sudden like let's say you want like a what's something that one wants say you want a house.

0:20:25
I want to own a house.

0:20:26
And then you say, set it up at the mandala perfectly. And then you go, where's my house? Poof, it appears in the physical, right? Yeah, that hasn't happened since like Egypt. While that is a thing and a possibility at really really excellent levels of impeccability in this yoga it's just not really kind of realistic when we get down to actually dealing with the mandala we set it up in the second attention we see that spiritual perfection and then then we have to do all the work that's necessary to bring that spiritual vision into life. So you don't just say, I want a million dollars. Poof, it appeared in my bank account, right? It doesn't happen like that. It's, I want a million dollars. And then you go, hmm, I'm gonna make a business and I'm gonna work and I'm gonna work really hard. I'm gonna do all the sales and all the business administration, all that stuff. And then that's how I get a million dollars. So the Mahamandala is the second attention, but it doesn't mean that there's no first attention. It's the Mahamandala is that perfection and a greater accessibility and understanding of the second attention so that you can have a stronger focus in the first attention to bring through the enlightened energy from intangibility to manifestation. So that is what it is. You know when when we're talking about the Maha Mandala, it is spirit. It is spiritual. It's second attention. But it is precise yoga of second attention. And it's really good. So when you have the focus on really understanding the second attention, then you can bring things into the first attention better. It's kind of the secret. So there's two ways of yoga, right? Hard work, like Milarepa, right? So Marpa's like, hey, you're going to build some towers. And just by going through the hard work, building towers, building towers, just doing the work, work, work, eventually you refine your being through the first attention. But Marpa had him in a second attention structure. just by doing the work, just by doing the work. You burn off karma, you open up consciousness. And this is the primary way that we teach Bodhans, or you know, like new students. Intro is just intro. Beginning, okay, once they get into yoga, this is the most important thing. They just have to do first attention stuff. The more that they do first attention, the more they develop personal power, they burn off a whole bunch of lame karmas, and then they're able to grow. So, that's one way. So, when Rama was first talking to us about yoga, he said, when you do yoga, whatever you're doing, you're trying to build a computer program or whatever, in yoga, you're building something, even if it's a little program or something like that, you're building something in the first attention, but it is creating something in the second attention. And that is, you know, the first step of understanding the Mahamandala. One action in physical creates something in spirit, but it also creates something in spirit that creates a balance. The flip side of that, which Rama said much later, is, you know, after you're, we were like beginning to intermediate students, and then he was like, you create things in the second attention, and then they flow out in the first attention. And he said, that is advanced yoga, which is the Maha Mandala. And that means that you see the spiritual picture in your mind. You see the Mandala, you get the second attention, and then you make it in the first intention. Then you do it in the first intention. Now, here's the difference. Remember Milarepa? Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,

0:26:11
I'm trying to build a tower, it's so difficult.

0:26:14
Or remember Apati? Apati's all, no, don't remember. We're like, oh God, it's so difficult. Every Apari yogi is like a Mila Rapa. And also, you know, maybe legal desk. I don't know. You know, the more you push into your yogas, and it's hard, you're Mila Rapa. You should be happy about that. But then also listen to what I'm showing you now. Because this is the more advanced teaching that Rama gave us. And that is, when you see it in the second attention, then it flows in the first attention. This is absolutely not easy. It's extremely advanced, and I could barely do it myself. So it's very difficult, but it's absolutely the best nature of things. You know, this is what Buddha called right effort. And that is to be so aligned with the flow of the universe and the Dharma that immediately everything that you do feels good and balanced, you feel happy and strong, and it is effective. That if you get it right in spirit, then all the stuff, all the trouble and hardship of building towers, it just becomes the easiest thing. It's no trouble. It's no worry. In fact, you like doing the hard work. This is a big thing. Wherever you find yourself getting stressed out and saying, I don't like it, it's hard. Not that it's not hard. Not that it's not this most difficult thing in the universe, you know, to make a company, to build something, to get a job or whatever you've got to do. It's not that it's not difficult, it's that you're not aligned in spirit. And if you're not aligned in spirit, everything is a pain in the ass and it hurts. It's riding the cactus, it's all difficulty. It's trouble, it's harmful. You're all, oh, but it's so difficult to do stuff. But if you can see spirit, that shows you such a bigger picture and it actually gives you so much momentum and energy that you can do anything in this physical world. So when you find yourself doing something, karma yogis, shodhams, arhams, you're doing something and you're all, ouch it hurts, I don't like it, I'm going to stop, I'm struggling with it. That's all karma yoga, that's all trouble, that's all karma yoga. But if you see the Spirit, you enter into what Buddha called right effort. And right effort is flowing like the Tao. Flowing like the Tao. So this is a secret teaching. This later teaching of if you see it in the second attention, then that spiritual seeing of what we would call, you know, what I call now, seeing the mandala, then everything flows in a much more powerful way. Everything just happens. It's like wu-wei. It's a powerful thing. You have to have the proper first intention, but when you do, a little motion can be so powerful. You see the essence of everything and you have to hold the first intention in its proper place, but the second attention is the most important thing. When we were with Jana, our sensei, he would show us just a push. He was like, push but don't push. Get to the essential energy. Don't think of anything. Be selfless. And when you do that push, then all of a sudden you see a greater power. This taps into the flow of the Tao, the flow of the Dharma. It taps into the mandala. The mandala, when you see it, and you can Appropriately use your attention that that structure of seeing Has a massive force when you direct it in the first attention Okay So I would like to sit with you guys just for one more song and Good just check my time One more song Just checked my time. One more song. And I'd like to focus again on the third eye. And we're going to be looking into the mandala. where when you see that vision, everything that you want in the first attention becomes wu-wei, it becomes a powerful expression of spirit and not of frustration or stress. You want to be, I want you to be masters, a master of yoga, a master of, you know, you look at a master of karate or martial arts, kung fu, or whatever, and they've got all these students who are like all, ah, ah, and they're just all, ho, ho, ho, ho. They're jolly and they're so strong and they're focused, but they can handle it with ease and no stress. Right? That's what I want you guys to do. I want you to be masters. A master deals with a whole bunch of stuff, but they have impeccability, sometimes they have impeccability, they're like totally focused, but they just do it so easily. They're totally impeccable. Or sometimes they're just all no problem I want you to be a master which means that you can deal with say a martial arts master can deal with total aggression of all sorts of different types and different attitudes and personalities who are coming at them and they can walk it deal with it. Without a high level of stress, they have a flow of power. That's what I want you guys to do as the mystical, powerful, enlightened teachers of this school. But I want you to understand, where does that come from? It comes from spirit. experience this mandala, which is a creation of spirit, a program of spirit that is very,

0:35:02
very strong,

0:35:03
that enables you to have that flow of energy. So we're going to sit for one song, focus on the third eye and the sphere.

0:35:18
So. So, So, So So I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go So So So So so so It's a long way to the place where I belong It's a long way to the place where I belong It's a long way to the place where I belong It's a long way to the place where I belong the the the the the the the the so the So, so So I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go so So so So You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero You're my hero All right. So it's important to understand, when we're teaching, I'm teaching you and maybe the whole sangha about the Mahamandala. It is this very beautiful thing. But it's something that, even though it's something that you guys have been training

0:47:44
in from day one, it's something that you don't have mastery over. So I want you to focus on being a masterful enlightened mystic, as you saw me do for many years. Because the Mahamandala, even though you can conceptualize it, it's bigger than you might understand. So Buddha was with his great subject and disciple Ananda. And then they're just hanging out one day. Buddha says, do you know, Buddha gave this teaching on dependent arising, dependent origination. Everything that arises is dependent on something else that has already arised, already arosen. So Buddha said, do you know what my teaching is? And he said, sure. Dependent origination, a dependent arising. Everything that happens, Buddha's every dharma that arises is dependent on another dharma that has already arisen. And then he talks about it, and then, what do you know of this, Ananda? And Ananda's like, If you have an egg, a chicken must have laid it. So the fact that this egg is here, it's only here because there was a chicken. And that chicken was only there because of an egg. Thus, solves the whole problem. What came first, the chicken or the egg? Both, because they're dependent origination. Everything is in this cycle. Everything is in this teaching of dependent arising. Chicken and egg? Yeah, both. They're always together. Chicken, egg, chicken, egg, chicken, egg. So he said, yeah, something like that. And Buddha said, no way. That is a karma within something that has been arisen is dependent on another dharma. And the student, Ananda, is all, huh? What? So here's the thing. The way that you see everything and the way that you work with structure. Within that there is a dharma, because there's karmas within that structure. Like let's say I opened up a karate dojo on West 42nd Street in Manhattan. And I'm like, oh, I've been so I'll go here. And I'm going to teach certain things. And I could teach perfect like, Shurikankar Vati or small circle Jiu-Jitsu or whatever. Once we get that dojo, once we create that school. Where did that come from? That is a bigger picture. Because everyone goes to a dojo, they work, they do all sorts of things, they get a black belt, you know, and there's this whole amazing experience in that dojo. But where did that dojo come from? It came from a bigger place. That dojo existing and all the power in that dojo to get these martial artists who can defend their lives and save other people's lives, that all came from somewhere else. That whole experience was dependent on something else. This is Buddha's teaching on dependent arising. dependent horizon. So the yoga of the Mahamandala is to understand where everything came from and to understand where everything rolls out and plays out and to see where it all comes into that balance. It's a very advanced thing. So, very often, the student, like Ananda, will say, well, your teaching is just one thing leads to the next, which is karma. But that's only a karma within an aspect of dependent arising. So dependence arising is actually Buddha's way of describing the Mahamandala. That everything is connected, everything is in balance, everything has enlightenment. A lot of Buddhists, they'll see it as a stream. One thing leads to the next thing.

0:54:04
And that's for that one thing.

0:54:05
What about everything? Everything leads to the next thing. Everything is in a balance. So my big point is this. It's very important to do your part and to know this whole big dependent arising thing, you're not going to see it probably at this point. You're not going to understand it. You're going to understand the mandala that's created for you, how to work with it, that's good. But how to create create mandalas, you're not going to understand. There's a much bigger picture, which you don't know. So I would say don't teach the mandala. You don't know it. You don't understand it. It's much, much bigger than you're aware of at the moment. But I want you to become masters of enlightenment within the mandala. There is a mandala that's created for you, the dojo. Be an expert sensei in the dojo. Be an expert sensei. And don't try to get into a higher philosophy from that. Like you guys should be the outer expression of the Buddha. The thing that people see, the thing that I'm doing in the Maha Mandala, it's invisible. No one's going to see it. It's unnoticeable. It's all second attention. But what I want Shodans to do is I want Shodans to be the people who stand up and say I'm going to do a transmission. I'm going to do an empowerment for you that's going to change your life. I'm going to do an initiation that brings you up into a higher spiritual level. That's what Shodans need to do. I'm not going to do that anymore and I need you to do that. That's your work and when you do that work that's where you become the Buddha. You become that expression of the Buddha. And you're working in this structure of an enlightened yoga, a mandala. And guess what? All of this gets you higher and higher and higher. And when you're ready, I'll definitely share with you more and more and more about how to take that mandala and spin the wheel of dharma, as Buddha called it. Okay, I would like to say thank you. This is very beautiful. Be well. This is a very special day for me. This is my Enlightenment birthday, my last enlightenment birthday. So you kind of reincarnate in enlightenment. Oh this was my first birthday, wait no this is my next birthday. This is my recent birthday, July 7th, 2020. Dharma Villa. I had an enlightened experience. The New York yogis say that's, they even knew the date before they, you know, when they talked to me, they're all, on July 7th, 2020, that's when you became fully enlightened. I was like, oh, you guys, how do you guys know that? Because we're smart, because we're not idiots. And I was like, well, I had a beautiful experience. I wasn't looking for it.

0:58:03
I wasn't trying for it.

0:58:05
I was just meditating, trying to be impeccable, doing selfless service for the dharma and for my students. And then that day,

0:58:14
I don't know what happened.

0:58:15
There was a very good solstice and then it just grew out of that. And, you know, I don't know how to describe the experience. It was something special. And I live a life of many something specials, but this one was the most highest special thing. Oh, it's time. All right, thanks guys. Kamsahamnida, be well. Kamsahamnida, be well. See you soon.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
