0:00:00
All right, hello everyone. Welcome to Satsang. So we're going to begin with meditation. We'll sit for one song. We're going to focus on the navel chakra. So sit up nice and straight and let's begin.

0:00:15
So so so so So so So Okay. Okay, so today I'd like to talk about Bodhidharma, and especially how Bodhidharma relates to business, career, and career yoga. simply means enlightened way. But it has a connotation in Buddhism. It means awakened teaching. So, Bodhi is that enlightenment principle, but it's also talked about where it's awakening to that enlightened, the enlightenment that is there, awakening to Buddha nature. is truth. And Bodhi Dharma is that awakening truth, that awakening teaching that brings you to enlightenment. So, awakening teachings are so important. That's where there's magic. That's where there's a spark. That's where something speaks to truth, speaks to your and brings you to liberation. Now, for the spiritual study of career and business, right livelihood and yoga, it's the most important thing.

0:02:30
Because if you have awakened teachings in right livelihood, in business, it makes something happen. It makes you successful in business. It makes you happy, satisfied in career. So it's a very, very powerful thing. It's the most essential aspect of right livelihood. So, it's something that really ignites the spiritual path, and especially the spiritual path of business and career yoga. So, Bodhidharma, it's living teachings, that's what I like to call it. They're alive, they're happening. It's not like yesterday's newspaper, right? It's what's happening now. What matters now. It's what's happening now. It's new. It's fresh. So it's really important because there's a lot of transformation when something is living. It's when it's fresh, there's something that's happening, and it's a good thing. So there was this one student who was always wearing just jeans and a t-shirt, and he exchanged his jeans and t-shirt for a new business suit. And then he said, I feel like a changed man.

0:07:18
You change,

0:07:20
there's transformation. It's new, right? And going for an interview in jeans and a t-shirt, I mean, what is this, California?

0:07:28
Anyway, so, you know,

0:07:30
you know, there's the Omicron thing going on, so I'm kind of sheltering in place. So everything that I'm going to do today is all inside jokes. Yeah, but Bodhidharma is fluid, flowing, new, fresh teachings. And that's a state of mind. The other side of that is where you're rigid, where you're fixed. That's where you have limitation. You're not flowing with life. You're not in the moment. It creates a lot of negativity. When people are rigid, or if they're fixed in an idea, any time you find yourself fixed in your mind on something, you'll start to see that negativity builds up. You have a bad outlook. You're not positive. You start to see problems. You get pessimistic. But never get pessimistic because pessimism never works anyway. Pessimism never works anyway. But it's important to recognize that if you start getting negative, you're probably fixing your mind in a condition that's very rigid and not flowing with the moment. And that's where you get out of alignment with truth. You could be really, really smart, powerful, strong, intellectual, or whatever, right? But if you're not flowing with truth, what is now the awakened teachings, your power and intellect become a trap. You fall out of balance with truth. So I remember when I was at Merrill Lynch working on the trading floor, there was this one really top trader and he was really successful, he had a lot of personal power. Then he had a horrible day and they were like, ooh, you did bad. And he said, nope, I'm never wrong. It was like, there was this weird thing in the market. The market was wrong, I wasn't wrong.

0:10:03
The people were like, okay.

0:10:05
And then the next day, also, bad trading day. And they were like, well, you shouldn't have done that trade. He's like, I was right, that trade was wrong. Whoa, okay, but you lost money. And then the third day, also, horrible day of trading. And he's just like this tough guy. And, you know, we're hanging around after work. I was just a computer programmer, but all the other traders were like, man, you really made a bad trade. And he's like, I didn't make a bad trade because I'm never wrong. Then one of his, one of the senior other guys was like, you're right, you're never wrong. Sometimes you're confused, misled, stubborn, senseless, and idiotic, but never wrong. So, even if you're super strong, super successful, super smart, if that's what you are, you're rigid, and you're fixed and that brings you out of balance with reality. It makes you senseless and idiotic, but never wrong. So this is what we have to understand, that there's a living teaching, a bit of humility, a bit of selflessness. It lets go of these fetters that hold us down, of ideas and concepts that get us out of touch with reality. It's very important. So, Bodhidharma is fluid. Bodhidharma is that awakened principle, that teaching that gets us to open. It's very, very, very beautiful. Now, with Bodhidharma, there is a way. There's a way forward. When you're fixed in your attention, there's a wall. So the ancient teaching of Zen, where's the door to Zen? Where's the door so I can open it to get to Zen? It seems like there's a wall between you and enlightenment. And then you're like, where do I open that wall? Where's the door where I can open and walk through? You are the wall, and you are the door. And there is no wall, and there's no need for a door. That's the Bodhidharma. Bodhidharma is that everywhere is a door, or there is no wall. And then the self is everything is a wall. So, we get to this point where we have to understand what is the self. The self is a limitation. What is Bodhidharma? The teachings of awakening open you up beyond this idea of the self. That is the doorway to Zen. So it's a great thing. Bodhidharma is a celebration of enlightenment. It's fantastic and wonderful and amazing. progress and success in everything that you do. So when we're practicing the teachings of awakening, these are the teachings that bring us to life, that make us stronger in all aspects of our lives, but a very strong focus on our career. So I remember a time where I was focused on career, and I was learning the Awakened teachings. I was working at an HMO, Oxford Health Plans, and I was the technical architect. So when I was there, I was really going through a lot of spiritual study, really reflecting on my life and understanding. And I was reading Pantanjali's Yoga Sutras. And I was, you know, I was actually at work, doing work, then I took a little break, and I dread this one thing. And that job was super stressful. As a technical architect, I had to figure out everything for the whole company. There were all these things that weren't working. So I was there to fix the whole company's technical architecture. And I was, yeah, a lot of stress. A lot of different departments, everybody in the company. I was at the executive level. I mean, like the CEO, the CFO, they would all yell at me. And I'm like, okay, I'm gonna fix it. So it was a lot of stress. And I was like, this is stressful. However, what does Pandanjali say? And he said that Samskaric existence is suffering. There's no way that you can change the world. It will always be suffering. However, you can change yourself and be out of suffering through these mystical meditations. And I was like, hmm, interesting. And I sat there and I thought about it. And I thought about it, I reflected on it, and I was like, well, yeah, my job, it's definitely, there's a lot of suffering here, a lot of stress, a lot of difficulty. And it just keeps happening over and over. It's difficult.

0:17:17
And I was like, hmm.

0:17:18
And I was just thinking about it. Then I had this one programmer who I hired. His name was Vinod Kusipatra. That's what he said his name was. Anyway, he was a deeply spiritual guy, an Indian guy. And so I would talk to him sometimes, you know, about like the Bhagavad Gita and stuff like that. And he was, you know, is going on, what's happening with these Patanjali teachers. And I was like, he comes into my office and he's like, hmm, you look like you're in a deep contemplation. And I told him what I was considering. And he said, you have two choices. He said, like the Buddha, you could say everything in incarnation and reincarnation, in Maya, is a dissatisfaction and you have to become enlightened. And I was like, yes! And he said, but you have another choice. And I said, what is it? He said, you could be an American dog. Because an American dog gets treated like a prince. And an American dog gets all these little treats, gets combed, gets washed, gets taken care of like a prince and then you won't have to suffer because you could be an American dog and I'm like well how can I be an American dog he's all first you have to die okay he's like but then you could be an American dog and I was like hmm and I considered it and I was like hmm I'm an American dog still not gonna work out very well I still will get to this point where I'm not happy as an American dog. Right? And so, then, these were ancient teachings Pantanjali's teaching was for way back in India, you know, 1500 years ago. And then it woke me up to saying, I'm not happy with my job. And even if I was at the best state of existence in America, I might have been a good black dog. might have been a good lapdog, a pretty happy existence. And I was like, no, neither thing. A good existence in the relative world doesn't work for me. And I said, no, it's not going I need to work with the teachings of detachment. So Pantanjali's teachings were that everything that happens in the physical world, in this world of the finite world, it's unsatisfactory and causes suffering and pain. But you can't change the world, but you can change your mind. And that's detachment. So I started to study the detachment aspect of yoga. And when I had detachment, then I was happy. And I was like, whatever happens, I'm happy. And I was also very, very strong. When you can let go in your career, like be detached, you can be so much stronger. The more fear that you have, the more self that you have, the worse that you are at your job. Karmas, you squash your abilities. Everyone is capable of anything. You could jump into a job that you never thought you could ever do. One. Two, when you're in that job, you could succeed outrageously. You just have to stop the ideas of self. Those are the karmas, the mayas. That's what holds you down. So you have to be like, no, I'm free. I'm free. You're free to be the greatest. You're free to be strong. You're free to be powerful. You're free to be enlightened.

0:22:47
That's what you have to do.

0:22:52
to. So we take these ancient teachings and we bring them fresh, new, and alive into our those ancient Greek jokes. It's like they're about something ancient in Greek but it also relates to your life, you know. So like Poseidon, you know, king of the ocean, he's like, what did he say to the big sea monster? He said, hey buddy, what's crackin'? See? All comes together. Or, the top three American electric guitar players, once they saw the Gorgon Medusa, what did they become?

0:24:02
Rock stars. See?

0:24:04
It's ancient, but it makes you laugh now. So if you can laugh, there's a little bit of dharma there. So what we're talking about is something that's living, breathing, comes from ancient observations like Panchangali. observations, like Punch and Jolly. I was at, you know, an HMO and I was computer programming the whole organization and I had this realization that helped me to create this health, American healthcare system. Sorry, I have to apologize. I was just a hired gun. Yeah, so... We have to understand that there is a time and a teaching. It means that in this moment we are awakened. That the awakened teachings exist now. So, I'd like to point out that the teachings are eternal and they're everywhere. It's just that when we don't see them, we miss it. But if it's revealed, then it's present. It's right there. It's here right now. Jesus Christ was, you know, in Buddhism, considered a Buddha. And Christianity was considered Jesus Christ. Bodhidharma. But Jesus called it the good news. Jesus didn't call it yesterday's newspaper. He called it the good news. Good news right now, right? He's like, hey, what's the good news? God or whatever. He used to say some things, but he called it the good news. I that it's a better term than Bodhidharma for us in the West. Well, good news! I got some good news for you! I mean, isn't that a great thing for us in the West? I got some good news.

0:27:14
I mean, you gotta put a good spin on everything.

0:27:16
Good news!

0:27:18
So... But, there's good news in everything.

0:27:22
The good news is everywhere. Everything that you see.

0:27:26
Even if you think it's a messed up thing,

0:27:28
you can turn it into... good news.

0:27:38
The gospel. Gospel. There's another word for it.

0:27:44
You're like, I got something stuck in my throat. It's a gospel. Cool. Don't worry, it's gone. Yeah, the good news. That means that there's something good awakened. Now, is that Christian? Well, because they eventually called him Christ. But, no, it's everywhere. So there was this great yogi, not too long ago, Ramacharita, and he was just this amazing, amazing, amazing, super strong and powerful yogi in India. And then he went on this world tour. So first he went to Japan. And he was such a powerful yogi. He comes to Japan and he told the Japanese, he's like, I'm like you because he was Japanese in past life but he's like I'm like you and then taught them these beautiful powerful things he went to the Zen temple and he goes into Samadhi and then he went to the there was another kind of Buddhism and he goes to their temple and then he goes to the kind of indigenous kind of religion and he goes into Swadhi. He's just going through every place, going, teaching, I mean just seeing enlightenment in all things and experiencing that and bringing that to everyone and everyone's like oh my garnish this Indian guy is so amazing so powerful and then he goes to America 1900 this is like 1901 I think he came to America and in America he just went to the Catholic church that was in New York and he was like, pshhh, enlightenment, samadhi. He was in this trance, they call it a yogic trance. And he was just in this really high state of mind, beautiful, and he brought this light. And then he went to a Jewish synagogue in New York. And then again, this yogic trance and play. Then he went to Egypt. And in Egypt, he went to a Muslim mosque and he was in Samadhi. And then he went to look at these ruins of these temples and he saw this spiritual hieroglyphic wall that goes into Samadhi. So enlightenment is everywhere.

0:31:26
Everywhere.

0:31:27
But Bodhidharma is lifting everything to the highest level of enlightened awareness. And that's something that makes you bright. Now Ramacharka also, when he went back to India, he was talking with this math professor at a university, who was one of the top professors, and this guy was like, I'm so unhappy with my job and everything's tough and he and Ramacharita was like, why? And he's like, well I've been working on this one theorem and he had this big blackboard with all the chalk and all the little math on it and he's like, I've been working on this for, you know, two years and it's one of those things that's so things are so hard to figure out, I can't figure it out. And then Ramacharita walked over and solved it! Because Ramacharita was also extremely strong in mathematics, but his mathematics was not mathematics of school, it was mathematics of wisdom. But he was able that and show this professor a way of enlightenment, a way through, a way through where you're blocked. Because the professor was blocked in his mind. Rama Tirta was not blocked in So, this is like when, you know, there's a Buddhist monk, gets on the snowboard, and

0:33:18
all of a sudden can ride.

0:33:19
That was a dream, by the way, in surfing the Himalayas. But it was a good dream. So when we go through these awarenesses, we're able to let go of places where we're stuck. The Bodhi Dharma is that awakened spark that can make everything change. And you can see enlightenment in everything and everything in your job where you feel stuck, in your business where you feel stuck, it can have that that Rama Tirtha, that light that shows you the way, that makes everything brighter. There is a way through every business, you know, congestion or every place in your job where you feel stuck, bothered, or pushed down, there's a way of Dharma through it. It might take a Rama Tirtha to come over and solve your algorithm, but the Bodhi Dharma is the awakened teachings that bring you through, that show you the way, that bring you up. So it's very important. Now, Bodhidharma is something that exists in the moment. It's something that addresses your mind right now. It's something that is for you and your situation as it is. So you know, some big Swami might sit there and talk about the Dharma and that Dharma, if they're talking about real awakened teachings, the Bodhidharma, it's something that lifts you up now. You see it. You go, oh, that's big, that's good. It's very important. Because if you don't see it, then you miss it. If everything that you hear in a teaching is boring, you already know what they're saying, it's not enough, or it's something opposite to what your belief is, then you miss the Bodhidharma. And I think a good example of this is Bodhidharma. So, Bodhidharma was the 27th lineage holder after Buddha of Buddhism, and he left India and he went to China. And then when he got to China, he said, you know what, we need to learn Kung Fu because the conditions here are not good. So we need to learn some martial arts. So we need to be able to fight away these bad guys who are messing with our temple. And now that sounds practical, but it also doesn't sound Buddhist. And so there were so many people who said, no way, I want to be a Buddhist monk, but I don't want to learn fighting. That's against everything I've ever known as a Buddhist monk. And then this guy who says he's the thing, he's like talking about fighting. And they go, no, no, no, I can't do it. But the ones who did created the Shaolin Temple with Bodhidharma. Bodhidharma, call him a living teaching, he was a teaching that was pure and enlightened and for the time. So the monks that did the work that were necessary, that was necessary, they were there, they went through it. Some monks said, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, can't do this. It's something I don't like. I don't want to do that. And then they missed the Bodhidharma. There was this, there was a great Zen master in China, his name was And he and his brother joined the monastery when they were 18. They were both very young and they were like, let's do this. Now their Zen master was like, hey, you know, what do we do? We go around to the village and say, give me some food. And this Zen master said, I don't want to do that. I know Buddha did that. And I know that that's a thing, but I don't want to take food away from the community." He said, so we're going to make a farm so we can farm our own food. And then they farmed their own food and then they gave more. They had a surplus and they gave that to the community. He said, this is what I want to do. And so they did the yoga of farming. It's a work. Farming. Farming is a little bit of work. If you've never been farming, it's a little bit of work. And so, they were farming and farming. And one of the brothers was like, what does farming have to do with enlightenment? I quit. And he quit and then he went to some other, you know, ashram and he learned a bunch of sutras, but had very little realization. But his brother, Wen Chi, became a really famous Buddhist master. And then, after he was like, wow, my brother is a really famous master, let me go to my brother and say, what can you teach me about enlightenment? And his brother gives him a rake, a hoe, and a shovel, and says, okay, if you want to know about enlightenment, let's do some farming. So, the thing that we often come up to is ideas that block us and yet there's a reality in being very practical. Buddhism is very practical and practicality, we can apply ourselves to what we call the awakened teachings, the Bodhidharma is a really wonderful thing. Now, Bodhidharma is something that is awake, and it's for you, and it's for right now. It's for this moment. It's for your situation. So, consider your situation in your career or your business. The Bodhi Dharma is a teaching for you right now. It's something that informs you, awakens you, gets you out of a limited view, and shows you a path in your business, in your business. And it's very important because if you're asleep in your business, you just kind of sit there, you don't take advantage, you don't see the opportunities, you get into karmas that slow you down. But when you are like awakened with the Bodhi Dharma, these awakened teachings, it opens you up and you can see a lot more. So there was this time in China. There was a Buddhist monk and he was looking after his ashram. He was just like a good solid monk in his ashram. But things fell into disrepair. It was the time of the warring states and his ashram was suffering, they had not a lot of food, there was a lot of trouble, and he was learning about the Buddhist teachings, the awakened teachings, and they were about supporting the Dharma, and helping the Dharma, in spirit and in mind. But he said, I have to do this for my school. So he actually, this monk, walked out, he left the monastery, and he became a very successful merchant so that he could support his ashram. The whole community around the ashram was so impoverished that they couldn't support the ashram, but he went to a bigger city, made a lot of money, and was able to help the ashram See, this is, these are what the Bodhidharma is. It's awakened teachings. It's teachings that they might not be what, you know, you might say, oh, well, a monk leaving, going into business, might not be a good thing. But no, it is, there's a dharma, there's magic, There's light in that. If that monk just said, Well, Buddha says it's best to be a monk and just starve and be hungry. It's not so good. It's limited. the awakened teachings that are for now, and your mind, and the things that work, and that all of the samskaric conditions, conditions of karma, and of maya, illusion, and of self, those things are limited. It's really important to understand. The self-view is a limited view, but if you meditate and stop thought, there's this awareness and consciousness that goes beyond the self-view. It gives you a view of the enlightened teachings, the awakened teachings, Bodhidharma. And then, when you're in this view, it transforms beyond the self, there's elevation, and you can apply that to your work. So, the teachings of Bodhidharma that are eternal versus finite. So let's take a crowbar. You guys know what a crowbar is? So a crowbar is a finite thing. Before the crowbar was invented, all the crows had to drink at home. But you guys know what a crowbar is. It's this metal thing that you can like take a tire off with or something like that. They usually have it in a car, usually to hit somebody else. But, you know, that's what a crowbar is. But eventually, a crowbar in the planet world, it will actually rust and fall into a little pile and then just blow away in the wind, it'll be gone. So, there was a before, there was a crowbar, and then there's no crowbar. And then when there's no crowbar, the crows have to go back to drinking at home. So, that's the crowbar. But the Bodhidharma has always existed. It exists right now and it will always exist. It's something that is eternal. It's very powerful and important So, it's really important to understand and to see that Bodhidharma exists in this moment. Bodhidharma is here, right now. You're like, where? Where is he? He's right over there. Yeah, Bodhidharma exists right now. The awakened teachings are everywhere and right here.

0:47:38
Everywhere and right here.

0:47:41
So I remember I had a Chinese student in San Francisco and she was getting her MBA and then she went back to China to start a business and I went to visit and her and her mother really had a really good relationship with this Taoist master. And this Taoist master, his thing was, you can ask him a question, and then what he would do, once you ask him the question, he would refer to the time. He'd look at a clock or at his watch. And then once he saw the moment, he was like, he would see this dharma, this power in that moment, and then he would give this powerful teaching. So it was really funny. So my student's mother, her name was, my student was Wuji. Her mother, she was this kind of strong businesswoman back in 1995, a long time ago, strong businesswoman. So, and they really supported this Daoist ashram. And she asked something about investing. She's like, oh yeah, what should I invest in? Then the Daoist master was all... And the moment that he saw the time, he's all...

0:49:12
He's like...

0:49:13
And like all of a sudden I saw his like third eye open and he's like, I'm gonna and he told her all this stuff. Lots of energy. He's just pretty chill. He's all. And he told her all these things about investing and he was talking about investing in real estate.

0:49:31
I was like, what?

0:49:32
And then he gave her a mantra. And then I think she did really well. And then my student Xu Qi was like, well, I just got my MBA and now I'm back in China and I'm starting a new business. And then he gave her advice as well. And then he's like, what do you want to ask? And I'm like, I don't know, like, what should I do? And he's like, what should you do? That's specific. It's like, oh my gosh, But he was like, yeah, everything that you're doing is great. So, yeah, so, the awakened teachings, they exist in every moment. They exist in all things. They exist everywhere. You just have to, see, that's the awakenedness of it. Everything is awakened. You have to just see the awakening. See what lifts you up from self, from limitation, from illusion, delusion, desire, attachment. That Now, Bodhidharma is a flow, it's fluid, it's easy, but it's also extremely strong against opposition. So the awakened teachings are teachings that help you with suffering, right? Buddhist teachings are all about how to get out of suffering. So the awakened teachings are all about how to deal with suffering. And in our school, when we develop ourselves in meditation, mindfulness, yoga, and compassion, these are ways that we are able to deal with life in ways where we can deal with the hardships, the difficulties, the pains, the horrible aspects of life in enlightened ways. So when something happens that's negative, the enlightened teachings teach you how to deal with it in a very beautiful, way, a way for success, liberation. So it's like, I like to think of sword fighting. So in American Western movies, when they're doing sword fights, they're going, clang, clang, block, and you see them going, ching, ching, ching, ching, ching, ching, right? And I'm like, whoa, that's a mess. And then if you see some like Japanese movie, one guy will come in, the other guy will go, and then it's over. But I like Chinese Tai Chi sword. When someone comes in, you've got to block it. But then you just go back into the circle. Little circle. Boom. So that takes a lot of attention. A lot of care, a lot of awareness, a lot of awakened awareness. But it's a way of dealing winning. So I remember, you know, well early 90s Microsoft was in this deal with IBM where IBM said we're going to come out with this new operating system that's going to be the biggest operating best operating system ever No. No. No. No. Anyway, so here's why. So Microsoft had a really good deal with IBM early on where they made DOS. And they had the licensing deals. And so as IBM was this big bear, they said, we're going to ride that bear and we're going to get all of this market share. And they did. Now, then IBM came back and said, we're going to create a whole new operating system that is way better, which it was. And they said, but we want to hire you, Microsoft, to code it for us because you guys are good operating system coders. Microsoft said okay but Microsoft was like hey we're going to code something that's supposed to be better than DOS and we you know we make our money on DOS and Windows the beginning of Windows and and they were like so if we do this right um we're giving IBM the operating system that will end our operating

0:54:55
system.

0:54:56
I imagine they're like, hmm, what should we do? Should we say no? Should we oppose them? Should we do something where we work for them, but we mess them up? And they said, no, we're going to do this thing called ride the bear. The bear is coming. The bear is going to stomp you or you can ride it. And so they were like, we don't know what we're doing, but we are riding the bear. We don't know where it's going to go, but we're going to ride the bear. And they rode the bear. And then they were building it. They're, you want us to build this? We'll build it. But these are problems and so in our Windows operating system we're going to fix those things, make it easier. And so OS2 ended up failing. I'm becoming Linux. Just kidding. Something like that. So, yeah, so they were able to face adversity, hardship, difficulty, and yet grow beyond it. So, when you're in the In the Bodhidharma, it's not that everything's just easy. It's that you can deal with everything that's hard. It's that you're good at it. We do this in Jiu-Jitsu, right? We work on throws and breakfalls. So we're like, oh, what if I get knocked down?

0:56:48
Here's how I fall.

0:56:49
What if I get thrown? Well, here's how I roll out of it and come back. So, it's like someone throws you, you roll and you're back up and ready to fight. So, what if someone throws me down? Here's a way I fall and I don't hurt myself. So, it's very important that you learn these things. You learn how to fall and not be hurt. You learn how to fall and to get right back up and be ready to fight. This is what, this is one of the basic things in Aikido and Jiu Jitsu. It's, oh my gosh, I got thrown down. Okay, you get thrown down, it's not the end of the world. Here's how you don't get hurt. Here's how you get back up and you're right back in the Bodhidharma. We learn how to deal with hardship and not be thrown off, not be set down, but to be back up and actually in the system area. And we were right by the ocean. And I found this Thai monk who would just meditate in this little cave by the beach. And I hung out with him. And I had a translator. And he would just sit there and he would like just watch the waves. He would just meditate and look at the waves crashing on the beach. And he said, at first my mind was like the waves, crashing. It was like this beautiful swell and then I would have a thought. And the thought disrupted my meditation. And then I became still and I realized that there is no crashing wave. There's only continuous movement. Because the crashing wave, it's not an end. It gathers and moves again. in his mind he went from something that went bad to something that was just continuous flow. And that's the Bodhidharma. You know, we look at our lives and say, oh my god, someone said something mean to me or something bad happened to me. And we have these crashing moments in our minds, in our feelings, in our attention, our ideas, and our lives. We see all these ups and downs, ups and downs. But the awakened teachings, the Bodhidharma, shows you that even in the hardships, there's nothing bound. There's no crash of the wave. It's just a flow, a flow of the wave. I'd like to conclude with a meditation, focusing on the third eye. And this is transmission. And this is the transmission of the awakened teachings, the Bodhi Dharma. Something that can deal with the hardships of life in an awakened, enlightened way where there's no crashing, there's only flowing. Okay, so focus on the third eye, look up towards me, and let's begin.

1:00:36
so So so so so You're my everything You're my everything You're my everything Alright, very nice. So the awakened teaching, Bodhidharma, it's something that brings satisfaction and success to your life. It's something that is uplifting, that always shows you a higher way. can say, let me let go of these conditions and see the Bodhidharma. And then it always

1:02:32
directs you to a higher, stronger, more positive way. So it's very important. You know, it's like John Walker, Johnny Walker? No, John Walker, the CEO, the founder of Autodesk. Not whiskey. They're different, but kind of the same. Anyway, yeah, so John Walker, 1982 I think, created Autodesk and I mean he was like an engineer, but he also was able to do computer programming to create this, you know, Autodesk does like, you know, architectural construction software, like how to design a building and stuff. And so he was like, okay, I got the software, what do I do? And he goes to the small business association and they go, oh yeah, you should do this and this. And he goes to, you know, goes around to like the, you know, the local Commerce Society, Better Business Bureau, and they're like, oh, you should write a good brochure and get something out there. And he's like doing all this work to try to market his software. And this was when software was kind of new, 1982. And people are like, oh, what are you trying to do? Because we just draw it on paper. He's like, you can do it here, it's better. No, I don't get it. Well, if I give you the right brochure, it'll tell you. And so he's working on, you know, the small business association is telling him, write a good brochure, he's working on it. Then he goes to a meditation teacher and he's like, I'm trying to do all this stuff. The meditation teacher said, it's like meditation, like you're overthinking. And he said, so instead of trying to talk about it, like think about it, just do it. And then he goes to this trade show where everyone's talking about like drawing different things and stuff like that. And he sits there on a computer, little, he just has a little place of the trade show, but he just, he doesn't explain, he never finishes brochure, he just started doing the work. And everyone's like, whoa, look, he's designed a big skyscraper right here, right now, right? And everyone's watching. And then everybody's like, okay, we're buying this thing. And then in three years, he was making $100 million a year. 1983, right? So it's like, ooh. Like, don't overthink things, just do it. It's like Dolly Madison. You guys know Dolly Madison? It's a bakery brand. They make little pies and donuts and cakes and it's really good. So true story, which is a joke. Dolly Madison went to a Zen master and was like, what business should I go into? Like, I'm, you know, I'm really trying to figure out, she was a good baker, but she also liked ice cream. She was like, what should I do? And then the Zen master goes, don't overthink it. Just drink some tea. And then drink the tea and tell me how you feel. So she takes tea, drinks, she goes, joyful. Drinks again.

1:08:54
Balanced.

1:08:56
Drinks again.

1:08:57
Relaxed. Drinks again. Satisfaction. Drinks again. She's Danish. Drinks again. Zingers. That's one of her top selling things. Anyway, so then she went into baking. So just relax, let it happen. And anyway, Dolly Madison was the first lady of the fourth president of the United States, and she was really into ice cream. And they didn't have a freezer in the White House at the time, but she brought ice cream over anyway, and her favorite flavor was oyster ice cream. Just telling you. So, Peter, can you beat that? Anyway, I don't know if that's something you want to beat. Okay, so, you know, these are the things. And the teachings are, they're alive they're real um you know dolly mason was a joke but yeah john walker in autodesk definitely that was a big thing it was a big turning point in his career because he was struggling and struggling and struggling to sell until some meditation teacher told him don't think, don't try too hard, don't get too wrapped up in your head and show it. Another one that I really like is, you guys know Andy Kaufman? He was this Saturday Night Live guy back in like the late 70s, early 80s I guess, and he was this really funny, interesting, peculiar fellow. His sense of humor was a little strange to some people, but he was really funny. And he was actually a very spiritual person. So he was going through his beginning comedian stage and trying to grow and things like that. And he was following the spiritual teachings and very interested. And there was this Indian master, the yogic master who came, and everyone in his community was listening and learning. And he said to this guy, he said, I have a question. How can I be funny? And then the Indian master was like, hmm. And he was talking about yoga and meditation. He's like, silence is funny. And then Andy Kaufman's like, hmm. And he really reflected on it. And then he came back to one of his top, you know, what they call a bit, one of his top little comedian episodes on SNL, Saturday Night Live, where he didn't say a word. He just came out, there's a record player, and he, like an old-fashioned one, was a big thing, and he put the song on, and the song just was playing a certain thing, and then there's this little part of the song where there's this voice that says, here I come to save the day, and it's just like, everything's like, da-da-da-da-da, and then, here I come to save the day. So it's just like a cute little song and he's just sitting there while the song's playing, just standing, and then when that voice comes, here I come to save the day, he just mouths the voice, doesn't say anything, and it's so funny. It's probably the funniest thing that he's ever done. is Bodhi Dharma, an awakened teaching. So, awakened teachings are... they exist, they're out there. You can manifest an awakened teaching in your life by awakening and seeing the Dharma, seeing the way to truth. You can say, hmm, I'm in this condition, how do I see the greatest aspect to grow and learn. And that's something that is most magical in your career, in your business. If you can wake up and see that reality, that enlightenment is everywhere. It's amazing. Okay, thank you all very much. All right, so we're going to take a 10-minute break. We're going to come back, and then I have some things to talk about. Okay, 10-minute break. Thank you. Hey, everybody. I have a new mudra. That means, yeah! Okay, so we're entering a beautiful time. Right now we're in a waxing moon comes the crush, the beat down, which is also beautiful. So right now we're in this beautiful, uplifting motion. These are the Bodhidharma, the awakened teachings. And so there's something to learn. And when we enter the next moon phase, once we get to the full moon, which is very close, then we're going to go into the waning moon. There's a big spiritual teaching that ignites at that point. So we have this growth time and then we're going to head into the next two weeks that's going to set a very on how you develop this dharma. Because what we're entering is, something that we really love around these parts, it's called Death Ground. Death Ground is a Taoist teaching from Xuanzi Art of War. important, so powerful in yoga, in an organization, in a business, in a career, in something, in anything. So we're entering from this wonderful, I want you to take these teachings to open up and be aware, and then once the full moon passes and we're going into the waning moon, I want you to recognize that we are going into Death Ground. So a really wonderful demonstration of Death Ground was General Cao Cao. He took his whole army. They built these very beautiful expensive boats. They took the army way over to the other side to attack the opponent and then he burned all the boats. He said, burn the boats. And everyone's like, why are you burning the boats? Those are beautiful boats. They're very expensive, they're lovely, they'll get us home." And he said, No, I'm burning these boats because there's no way back if we don't win. If we don't win, we can't retreat. We're dead. So if we win, then we can build new boats. But death crowned. But Death Crowned! We are all in. So, for every single yoga, every single yoga, you're in Death Crown right now. Bodhidharma, enlightened teachings, open up. This is the time to see the highest way. And then when we go to the next moon phase, very Buddhist mysticism, you have to get rid of what doesn't work. And if you don't work as a yoga, you'll get rid of yourself. As an ego, that's what we're working with right now. So there's no escape. There's no faking it. Yeah, my teacher always used to say, you can't fake it, you have to do it. There's no shortcuts, there's only doing it right. If you do it right, you can move fast. But there's no faking it, only doing it right. If you fake it, you're a mess. You know, Hungarians, you guys know, because for many years, you guys gave me quarterly presentations that were what we call vanity success. False ideas of what you're like, well, we did better in this and better in this and better in this, and yet we never made money. That's what we call vanity success. So, no, no, no, no. Cash flow equals energy flow. Yogas, wake up because if you don't make money, then why are you a yoga? Cash flow equals energy flow. And if your yoga is just a good idea and a really beautiful feeling, then it's not, then you fail. It's going into battle with fun tactics and fun tactics don't work in battle. Yeah, Dharma was talking to a yoga group and he was like, you have to tell them, try for real, to kill. I know we have really happy, happy workers, a really beautiful thing that we try to do, really high ideals creating technology to change the world socially, all sorts of wonderful beautiful things. But if you're not real, if you're not strong, if you can't figure it out, if you can't make it real, then you're a wishy-washy space cadet, spiritual goofball, and you're not worthy of continuing. So wake up, yoga, and also wake up, yogis. So I'm talking to the leaders who need to wake up and say, I'm gonna wake up, I'm gonna make my yoga work, be strong, right? Right. Wake up. Be strong. That's what we need to do for each other. That's what we need to do for the world. For each other. Our Sangha. For each other. The one person you're talking to. The four people you're talking to. The group that you're coding for, you need to wake up for that person. But we also wake up to the world. Bodhidharma. We are the magic. We, we don't limit yourself. Don't yourself. Every person in every job level needs to move up. So don't say, I'm pretty comfortable where I am now. Some of you are comfortable not having a job. Some of you are comfortable having a weak job. Some of you are comfortable having a good job. I would say, break it and come up the next level. This is a very powerful thing. Stop thinking that you can only do something and do better. Do you guys understand that? It's very important. What's your dream next level? What is it? You're like, hmm, I'm making $100 an hour. What if I made $150? How can I do that? Bodhi Dharma. Come on, stop self-critical logistics karmas. Everything's possible. Everything's possible. Everything's possible. Stop thinking it's impossible. The wall? Where's Zen? Zen's everywhere. That wall doesn't exist.

1:24:58
Wake up! Sodi, Dharma, it's awakening. But it's awakening in your yoga, in your life,

1:25:08
in your business, in your career.

1:25:10
I'm gonna clap more.

1:25:11
Because I like the clapping.

1:25:13
You guys are ridiculous.

1:25:15
Come on, but seriously, because I live in the clapping and the laughter. I live in that energy that just... that's energy. Like, laughing energy is funny unless it's not funny. It's funny until I explained it too much, right? I like how you explain the joke too much and you still can laugh about it. Anyway, so... Deathground!

1:26:07
Deathground.

1:26:10
And it's for real. Do it! Because, I will say, do it. And there's the highest degree of enlightened awareness. And if you just go, well, I'm just going to do what I want to do. I'll say, you do what you want to do. But I am going to go up to this enlightened condition. So we're at a very important time where the leaders of the yoga need to wake up and engage and take your students and help them. And also the leaders need to find a higher principle of consciousness so that you can help. If you're a leader in yoga, this is your koan. Leaders in yoga, this is your koan. Wake up and help. It's a big deal for me because I don't do this anymore. I don't do the job which I can do very strong. But I want my enlightened leaders and yogic leaders and everybody to create something strong. I will watch it. But I won't step forward. Because I need you to do it. Every single one of you. Everyone needs to open up to be a perfect yogi. Even if you're the lowest level, the brand new yogi, the white belt. I've been a white belt many times. I agree. Meow. Yeah, anyway, I was a dog. Sorry. I've been a white I've been a white belt many times. I agree. Meow. Yeah, anyway, I was a dog. Sorry. I've been a white your white belt or black belt. Be your best. Okay, thank you all so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
