0:00:00
Happy Solstice. We're going to begin with meditation. I'd like you to sit up nice and straight, and we're going to focus on the third eye for one song.

0:00:10
So the the the the the the the so the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the you Very nice. This is a very special solstice. It's a powerful solstice. to speak about enlightened mind. Enlightened mind is unadulterated mind. It is incalculable in its essence. Enlightened mind is beyond self, beyond other. It is really the union of the opposites. It's funny, it's not even the union of the opposites, it's just where the border line between perception and awareness of opposite ends.

0:04:12
And then you see that all there was, was enlightened mind. It is a mind that has control, that doesn't indulge in self-importance and sharp practices or reactions from desire or anger. Enlightened mind is pure mind. That means the mind that is pure. Not engaging in discursive thoughts. terrible, limited emotional awareness. It is pure consciousness. Consciousness that is unlimited. It is liberated awareness. It is the perfection of attention. And this is enlightened mind, because there's all the stuff that comes up with the self. All I see is a bunch of difficult thoughts, troubled feelings, personal history, attachments, all sorts of trouble with people, stress. stress, and you say, where is enlightened mind in all of this? Sometimes we look at our mind and say, this is the opposite of enlightened mind. But the pathway to enlightenment is seeing that there's a more profound truth than your personal view, concept, and idea. So back in the early 90s, there was a delegation invited to Pyongyang, capital of North Korea, delegation from China of officials and they invited this one very famous monk. He was the abbot of the giant golden goose pagoda in Xi'an, China. And he was able to like go there, which is a very strange thing because you know North Korea is very was very against religion. He was such a famous character that they invited him. He didn't want to go. But all the politicians and delegates were saying, you really need to go. It's going to make things much better between our countries, good relations and stuff. So he goes, okay, I'll go. But the monks at his ashram, they were very concerned about him. And they were like, you can be, you can go there, you can be imprisoned, who knows what can happen to you, you can be killed or something. And so he said, okay, okay, as soon as I get there, I'll write you a letter when I see what's going on. And I know that what I write is going to be censored. So if I write in black ink, what I say will be true. And if I write in blue ink, what I say will be the opposite. And then they said, okay. So you know, they had this plan to, you know, get him out. They were like, we can send, there's this one, you know, Buddhist supporter who's got lots of money and he can like send in a carriage and sneak you out in the middle of the night or something. So they were like, you know, they're like, if it's bad, we have a plan. So he goes there. And the monks are waiting a few days, and they finally get a letter. They eagerly open it up, and it's in black ink. And they're like, Oh, okay, good. Let's see what's going on. We'll see what the truth is. And he goes, it's wonderful here. My accommodation is large, warm, they're very kind to me here, they let me do my Buddhist practices with no problem. I have no fear of being stuck here or imprisoned here. And then he says, if you would come to me in the middle of the night on next Thursday with a carriage to take me home, I would never accept it because it's so wonderful here. And he said, and they have wonderful stores here. There are stores where they have wonderful produce. There's butchers with an amazing amount of all sorts of kinds of meats. There's tools stores, hardware stores. They have everything you can need. And they have great stationery stores that have tons of blue ink. And then the monks are all, oh yes. I get it. It's opposite day. So then they enacted their plan and then midnight on that Thursday he comes out gets picked up and taken home. So sometimes when we look at what's opposite, if we look at it right, we can It is something that brings liberation. And a lot of times, you know, you could say, I used to have more of an enlightened mind, maybe when I was a kid, or one really high moment in my life, but I think I lost it. Somehow I want to get back to that condition. I lost control of my options. I lost command to escape. I needed more space, and I needed to return to what I lost. I think you need to Command Z that. If you're on a PC, what Control Z. Many ways to enlighten. And that means that you just need to know how to use your keyboard. This is to say that enlightened mind, your mind, is a supercomputer. And when you find that there's limitation, it's probably because you're not using the keyboard properly. This brings us to what creates enlightened mind and It is the skillful

0:13:39
discipline and practice of the Dharma

0:13:41
When you learn how to practice Dharma, it's like learning how to code for that supercomputer You learn how to Know what works? know how to use it and explore greater and greater powers and facilities of enlightened mind. In the practice of Dharma, you let go of limited concepts, limited self that brings you suffering, brings others suffering, and then you see a bigger and bigger, greater and greater vision of mind, enlightenment. Now, there's many types of spiritual practice, dharma practice, and one of my favorites is the Zen koan. So, in Rinzai Zen Buddhism, they have this idea of asking a question that doesn't really have an answer. And if it does have an answer, it has an answer beyond conceptual logic. So, it's kind of like one of the famous ones is, what is the sound of one hand clapping? And you say, well, it can't be this, because clapping actually has to hit something else to clap. So you go, wow, that's trippy. Let me think about that. What is the sound? It's an unanswerable question. But then you can answer it by getting to a deeper level of awareness. So there was this one Zen master, he comes into the Zen Do, and he says, enlightened Zen master, and he says, I have a koan for you, and you will become enlightened if you figure it out. And then the monks are eager to learn. So he says, meditate on what you sit on. And so they're all sitting there on their zafus, their meditation cushions. And then they start coming up with all sorts of things, like someone picks up their zafu and like stares at it. Someone's all like, I meditate on my zafu, so I'm already doing it. That's the answer. They start doing all sorts of funny things. And then in the room, there's this flash of light, and everyone says, what's going on? And they look, this one monk is glowing with light. And then Zen Master says, my mind sits on the Buddha Dharma. I meditate on the Buddha Dharma. So he became enlightened. He had this Satori moment. And then the Zen master goes, very good. All these other guys are meditating on their butts. And then they have a sense of humor. Yeah. So, the koan is an impossible question from the didactical mind. But in spirit, it's a clear answer. that always gets you to address limited self-concepts and transcend them and ultimately transcend the self itself. So it's kind of like the impossible burger. The impossible burger is made out of soy and stuff, but it tastes like a hamburger. So then, you know, I saw this like Burger King commercial where they started having impossible burgers. And they go over to like, you know, some Texan and he's all like, yeah, I just like eating beef. How do you like this hamburger? It's great. And then they go, did you know that that's a tofu burger? And he's like. Sorry, hamburger enlightenment. But that was transcending a concept of self.

0:18:38
He's like, at the end, he's all, I guess I like tofu burgers.

0:18:47
Anyway, so, yeah, so, you know, an enlightenment goes on and on. All the teachings of the Dharma, yeah, they'll bring you to enlightenment and a realization. But then enlightenment goes on and on. The teachings of the Dharma keep growing your enlightenment. The enlightenment expands and becomes deeper, deeper, higher and higher, and more ultimate and more ultimate. There's no end to enlightenment. So even in the most basic practice, sitting meditation, even in the most difficult practices of like, you know, like things that you would say, I don't really want to do that, like karma yoga, you know, hard, hard things and essential things. And every, every single practice, every single basic practice brings you to a higher development. I remember in one of my dojos, I was in a karate school that had the best tournament fighters in the state. They always won everything. And what did we do in practice, in our dojo? Basics, basic blocks, basic punches. We did like 90% basics and then 10% more advanced firing. So the basics even bring you higher. Sometimes you get a little too fancy and you miss the point but every teaching of the Dharma brings you into a higher degree of enlightened consciousness. There's another Zen koan where the Zen master says to a student, he said, the second lineage holder of Zen, what was his left hand for. Now the second lineage holder put a tourniquet on it and then that guy became the next enlightened lineage holder after Bodhidharma. Okay, so this Zen master, a couple hundred years later, says, what's the use of his hand? And this is like one of those one hand clapping things. It's like, oh, it doesn't have any. His left hand. So then this monk meditates on it and he says,

0:21:20
It is to hold the Dharma.

0:21:22
And then the Zen master goes, Ooh, stinky Zen. Now this is a thing they used to say in Renzai Buddhism. Like a teacher would say, If you're wrong, if you're just coming from a self place, the Zen master would say, Stinky Zen. So he goes, oh, okay. And then he goes, wait, wait, I know what it is. His hand is to point to the door to Zen. And then Zen master, Stinky Zen. He's like, okay, he meditates more. And he goes, aha, it is. And then right there, light and fast, the Zen master slaps him across the face. And then he had this whole idea that was wrong again. But then that shock and being slapped gets him right out of his thought and he understands the koan. And he goes into the Satori enlightened moment. And he sits there for a couple hours in enlightened consciousness. And he comes back and says, the Koan has enlightened me. The Zen master says, very good. And then he says, so, you know, what is the use of the second lineage holder's hand? And he says, it is to point to enlightenment within you. And the Zen master goes, stinky, and then the monk realizes he's saying stinky Zen with his left hand, and then he has another realization of even that concept was not the right concept, and he goes into a higher level of enlightenment. So enlightenment goes on and on. You can say the same koan over and over and see enlightenment unfold. You can do the same yoga over and over and see enlightenment unfold. Any spiritual practice, any practice of dharma, the most basic thing or the most advanced thing, the same old thing or everything that's new, enlightenment unfolds. It's never stagnant. It always grows deeper, higher, and more ultimate. Yeah. Another very powerful discipline of dharma practice is tapas. Tapas. And I'm not talking about the little Spanish dishes, you know, that like, it's like one little dish, you know, costs as much as like a normal big dish, only it's like smaller. Not that. And this is, I'm talking about spiritual tapas, you know, and like Jesus, you know, invented tapas, I think. Because you know that story where he took two fish and a loaf of bread and fed a hundred people?

0:24:29
He just cut it up really small and put some olive oil on it.

0:24:32
I was like, that's not a miracle, that's tapas! Okay, I'm just kidding. But Tapas, by this great enlightened yogi, Pantanjali, he described Tapas as being a spiritual practice of penance. It's a spiritual observation, but it especially has a focus on selflessness. So this is what I want to draw you to, the practice of selflessness, because there's a whole bunch of yogas where they're like, let's get more technical. But in tapas, you do something as a penance, as a letting go. It's very well known, just like karma yoga, for burning off bad karma. If you, if you use your will to do something and hold that, that thing that you do, as long as it doesn't have desire, an inner fire burns. It actually has to be something that goes against desire. Because if you're on my top, this is going to be smoking cigarettes and drinking bourbon. I don't know. It's probably not going to work. giving up something and doing something that's difficult that you don't want to do. But that is a constructive thing. It can't be destructive. You're like, I really don't want to eat this bacon cheeseburger. But I'll do it. Anyway, so, Tapas is taking something that you don't want to do, that is going to be ultimately an okay constructive thing. And you just say, I'm going to do it. And then when your whole mind says, I know I desire something else, no, I want something else. I'd rather do this, it's time, I have to give this up. You stay on it. And then they say that, Pancha Jnanvali says there's an inner fire that purifies your mind.

0:26:50
So

0:26:51
there are three aspects of Tapas. There's the Tapas of the mind, which is the foremost practice of a yogi. And then there's a Tapas of speech, which is the foremost aspect for a yogi. And then the Tapas of the body or action, which is also the foremost aspect for a yogi to focus on. All these three things are the most important. So, of the mind, we come to, how do you treat your mind? You have to treat your mind with care, you have to be delicate, but you also have to direct the mind. You can't be too forceful. you have to be compassionate and kind to the mind, but you also have to be serious with the mind. This is the way that we face the mind. This is the way that we can direct the mind to Dharma practice. In our school, and ultimately I think in every spiritual path, there is meditation and mindfulness. There's a part where you're still in the mind completely. And then there's a part where you are engaging in the world and you're directing your mind towards Dharma in the world. These are disciplines. These are the tapas of the mind. So when you have the practice of mindfulness, it's looking at the mind, seeing what's arising in the mind, grooming the mind of negativity. It's saying, oh, this is a bad thought, I need to get rid of it, this is a bad feeling. But it's determining what thoughts and feelings, that energy you want in your body, in your mind, in your aura. And it's seeing what you don't want, getting rid of that, and it's directing the mind to something positive. So once I had a student who was really struggling, and through the tapas of mindfulness, to help him move along to a thin line in mind. And so he was just struggling in his life, just working. And then he saw another student get the new iPhone and it made him so upset. He's like, I want that iPhone. Okay, then that other student got a really good computer programming job in Silicon Valley. And this made him, oh man, I want that. And then jealousy started growing. And then this student, after a couple paychecks, became a Bowdoin level in the school. He said, that's what I want. He's got everything I want. He's got the phone, he's got the job, and spiritual elevation. And then this sends him into a really bad condition of consciousness. So he comes to me and he's like, oh, I'm so mad at that guy. I'm so jealous because he has this, this, and this. I don't have nothing. So I said, okay, this is one of the powerful teachings of the school. If you indulge in jealousy, you are cutting yourself off. You're repelling yourself away from that thing that you think you like. That's the energy of jealousy. But if you see someone doing something good that you like, if you say, I aspire to that, then their success becomes your success. Their energy in figuring it out is something that you can ride along with. It lifts you up. So jealousy is just, it's the opposite of what you want. So I said to him, I said, so just forget about this whole drama scenario, but what if you had that phone? What if you had that job? What if you had that boat on? How would you feel? And then he thought about it, and he's like, I would feel so great because this, this, this, all these reasons. I said, great. Now if you could look at that person and wish that for that person and be happy that they have it and be inspired by what they're doing, then that is the fastest path to attaining that. So he listened, he practiced, and he did it. in his mind and then very quickly got his tech job and his iPhone and it became a bot on him. But that's a fast way. The more that you have trouble with someone, especially if it's jealousy, it sends your spirit and power in the opposite direction. So this is what we learned. This is just one step into an enlightened mind through mindfulness. But then we come into really the most essential, like the most fundamental practice of spirituality, of enlightenment. And that's meditation. Meditation is directly dealing with your mind and spirit. It's taking a look at your mind and saying, this is what's true. And now, let me let go of even that and see a deeper truth. Because when you look at your mind and you see a whole bunch of thoughts, you go, well, this is real. It is, until you let it go. And then there's something more real. And then when you're enlightened, you're like, well, this Samadhi is real. Until you let that go, and then there's something more real. So meditation is the essence of all spiritual practice. This is the fundamental, most fundamental teachings of this school. And in meditation you can transcend suffering. You can transcend the limited mind. You can transcend things that seem so physical in one meditation. And this is what I'd like to do with you tonight, because this is the solstice, this is a powerful solstice. I'd like to do a powerful meditation on transcending limitation and suffering. So, at one time I had a student who came to me, and he had a lot of trouble. The first thing on his mind was him and his dad were fighting. He was angry at his father. And his father did all these things wrong. Big drama. And then the other thing was he was in a lot of debt. He was stressed out because of debt. And then the other thing was he was in a job that didn't pay a lot and was very stressful, and paying the monthly bills and rent and all that stuff. He was just having a really stressful time. And he said, what should I do? Now, he asked me this before the solstice teaching. And I said, on the solstice, sit with me, meditate, and let go. In meditation you can solve problems without logically thinking your way through it. There's tremendous power in meditation and on this powerful solstice I want to share that with you. A way to solve all your problems without lifting a finger.

0:35:13
It's to lift your mind.

0:35:15
So I'd like to sit with you. We're going to sit for three songs. And we're going to have the first song focus on the navel, second song on the heart, third song on the third eye, and when we meditate, I want you to kind of relax. I don't want you to try too hard. Don't over focus. There's a very strong meditation energy in the solstice and you're sitting with me. So let me meditate you a little bit. And all you have to do is sit up nice and straight, have a positive attitude. Don't try to concentrate so much. Light focus on the chakras as we meditate and let's let the self go, go into higher conditions beyond the suffering of the self.

0:36:12
All right, let's begin.

0:36:14
the

0:36:21
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. so So so So, So So, So we'll see what's in the past In this life we'll be living In this life we'll be living In this life we'll be living In this life we'll be living Oh so So so the the the the the the the Oh, so I feel like I could reach you if you took up to the sky I still thought that a memory of stars was there like shiny diamonds Then I turned and returned to a world that's kind of like it to me Space star, standing at the star, finding nothing to hide so the the the the the the the the the the the So, the refinement of the mind is a discipline. It's a discipline of meditation. It's a discipline of action. But it's also a discipline of speech. You have to learn, we call it right speech in Buddhism, but it is the tapas of speech for Pantanjali.

0:50:56
And the tapas of speech for Pantanjali begins with right speech. It means don't say negative things. This is the most important thing, because if you say negative things, it crumbles your spirit. If you say things that hurt people, that are negative, that are divisive, these are things that create trouble and karma and it all comes down on you like an avalanche. And this is what we call right speech, but it is the basic thing. Don't say bad stuff. Say things that bring people together, not that tear people apart. No matter what you think in your mind, if you say something, it creates an action. So better, even if you have trouble in your mind, better to shut up and meditate and go to your mentor and figure things out than to say, I'm mad at this person, so I'm going to call them a jerk. That could be terrible. So that's the most basic thing. That's what we teach in Buddhism. But Pantanjali's awareness is, and there's more. And what more there is, is listening. Instead of talking, listen. find, look at 90% of what you say, it's trouble. You should actually listen 90% of the time and say 10% of what you say. And then what you say can have more power and more dharma. This is like quantum Dalai Thama. And also, there's another important thing called being quiet. It's a, you know, a lot of times spiritual practitioners will take a vow of silence. So, not only just listening, but an intent to say I'm not going to express what I think. Because a lot of people like to express what they think. But it's actually very, very spiritual to say, I'm not going to express what I think. I remember I had a student, and he was new. And every time he would come to satsang, we'd have beautiful meditations. Then afterwards, he'd be like, wow, I had this other spiritual experience. It was kind of like one of those things like one time at band camp, things just kept on happening over and over. And none of us went to band camp, no one cared about band camp. We just cared about meditation and Buddhism and stuff. But he kept on saying, one time at band camp, one time at band camp. And this happened for months. And we were like, I was like, okay, go ahead. What happened at band camp? And then eventually I said, all right, now I'm going to teach you the tapas of speech. And he was like, yeah, cool, I'm going to learn. And I said, okay, it's a teaching called never miss an opportunity to shut up, and then now he's like an amazing orator of the Dharma. So we have to speak in positive ways that don't create separation or negativity, that always bring things into balance and unity. And it's best to listen way more than you talk. And sometimes, you know, to take that vow to say, I'm not going to say garbage. I'm not going to say what I think.

0:54:59
I don't have to say what I think.

0:55:02
Life could unfold around me without me saying, you know what I think?

0:55:08
Yeah.

0:55:09
Now, in Pantajali's teachings, the highest form of the tapas of speech is called a mandala, no a mantra. I'm all into mandalas. A mantra. And mantras are words of power. And when you say them, it invokes a spiritual vibration that elevates you and brings you to enlightenment. So mantras are enlightening, they're powerful, powerful aspects of enlightenment. This comes through this tapas of speech. That's why there'll be someone who gets a mantra from their guru and they'll just go around with their little prayer beads, doing japa, and just keep saying the mantra over and over and over and over and over for thousands of times and for decades. And it elevates and it burns off karma and it brings people into enlightenment. So mantras, very powerful. It's the highest form of speech. So like, you know, like you go over to someone and you're all, hey, how's it going? And then they're all like, oh, and speaking of them, I would like to do a mantra practice with you. Because when you speak properly, like I'm doing a Dharma talk directing you to the enlightened aspect of your mind. Each directs attention and direct spirit. If you do it right, it can be very enlightening. And so in the tapas of the mind, the mantra is the highest. The mantra itself is a meditation. And so we're going to do a mantra practice. We're going to listen to a song. We're not even going to focus on a chakra. We're going to focus on a mantra. And the mantra is Aum. And we're just Oh, oh, oh, pretty simple, right. And I chose a song that has like a pretty good, like, beat. So we're gonna, we're gonna listen to a song, we're gonna be like, oh, oh, oh, with the song. higher state of mind, higher condition of luminosity from practicing this teaching of Pantanjali, Tapas of Speech, the highest point, which is a mantra. So I'd like you to sit up nice and straight. And we're going to, you'll find it, you'll find the beat, just say, Om, Om, Om. All right, let's begin. Om, Om, Om.

0:58:09
so the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the so Wonderful. So mantras are very powerful because mantras, a lot of you had like such a much more pleasant meditation. You're just sitting there going, because if you're sitting there listening to music, focusing on the chakra, then you're just thinking all these thoughts. But when you're saying a mantra, the mantra automatically kind of kills the internal dialogue. voice is going, I should do this, I should do that. What about this? Because you're saying something. So it attunes the internal dialogue to a powerful dharmic message. And then you have a much more pleasant meditation. So a lot of you did really well, and if you need that, if that was good for you, practice it.

1:01:56
It's okay. You can do chakra meditation, listen to music, and say Aum. Padmasambhava gives the thumbs up on the Aum. So it's okay. You can add that to your meditation because a lot of you it helped you a lot. Internal dialogue. Words, words, words. This gets your words going in the right direction, your internal dialogue becomes a powerful statement of Dharma. You know, a mantra is a word of power. Just like some of you guys do martial arts, right? If you do martial arts, if you come across someone with a strong ki-ai, when they start coming in, that ki-ai is a mantra. It's a destructive mantra, but it disrupts your attention so that they can hit you. And it makes their power stronger. So we don't do destructive mantras unless we're on the dojo mat playing karate together, but this is an enlightenment mantra.

1:04:20
All right, we're going to take a break.

1:04:23
I don't have much longer to talk to you, but I think it's a good time to take a break. We'll take a break for 10 minutes only. I'll give you time to stretch. For those of you who really need a rest room, run. Okay, and then those of you at home, hang on. 10 minutes from now. And we come back for some very important teachings in the final meditation. All right, very nice. All right, so we're going to move on to the third tapas, which is the tapas of the body or the tapas of action. So it's very easy to do a tapas, the body. You just say, okay, I'm going to do something and dedicate whatever action towards enlightenment. And it can be something really simple, like fasting. This is something that many religions and spiritual paths practice. They say, I'll stop eating for a while. I want to eat, but I'll stop for a while in a spiritual observation. It's a kind of penance. It's a kind of spiritual practice. And by doing it, you have less energies going out doing weird stuff. You feel elevated in your mind. And that's why people fast. So from time to time in our sangha we fast. And I remember the last time we did a three-day fast, and a lot of people had very, very beautiful experiences. A three-day fast is like, it's really cute. It's the primer, it gives you the experience. And I think a strong fast is a week. Once you do a week, you get through all that part where you're like kind of hungry and expecting food, then you can just kind of keep going. So, my longest fasts, I've done a couple six-week fasts. And the first week is a little something. Not for me anymore, though, but it was like a little, wait, I'm kind of hungry. And then I'm like, well, then I'll just go to Budapest. I found easy getting there because I'm already hungry, in-hungry. You don't know how many times I'm coming back from Budapest and I go through immigrations. They look at my passport and they're, where have you been? I'm all hungry. And then they're all like, did you eat a lot? Half the time I'm wrong. Yeah, actually I did. Hungarian food's really good. So anyway, fasting. From time to time we will fast. We will do this tapas. And you know, these weird trainings. He would fast like crazy. He would sit there and hold his breath. He would like not sleep for nights. He would stand on one leg. He did all these just funny little things. And he was hanging out with these other guys who did the same thing. One guy would hold dirt in his hands with a little seed of jasmine would sprout and flower. That was his thing. You know, like in high school when they say, here's an egg, take care of it for a while? It's a top up. So it's just, but when you dedicate what you do, any action, it can be purifying. But it kind of has to go to some point where you feel it, like I'm hungry but I'm not going to eat. I'd rather do something else with my hands, but I got these two little jasmines to grow. It's just amazing. Hungarian Sangha to South India just recently. And we went to this beautiful spiritual retreat of a great enlightened master of tapas and his name was Tapaswaji. Tapaswaji. And he was a master of tapas and he lived 185 years from the purification that he got from tapas. There's this one story, he did all sorts of things. He would fast, he would stand on one leg, he just tried everything. But one of the great stories that he did was he lifted his left arm and he said, I'm going to leave it there. And he's just like, that's my tapas, there, that's my tapas. And at first you say, well, how hard can that be? He left his arm up for 25 years. Now, after a while it hurts. After a while it's trouble. In the beginning, it seemed pretty easy. But after a while, you're like, oh my gosh. So, in the story, he completely purged through all of his karma and became enlightened. But he kept it up anyway. Then he started to direct his purging. He wants to purge all the suffering of the world. And then in the story, Krishna appeared in front of him and said, Yo, bro, it's time to like, let that down. He's like, if it wasn't from Krishna, well, okay, okay. So Krishna, wait, it doesn't go down. It's stuck. And then Krishna had to like, give him magical powers. It gets stuck, you know. So, I mean, there's all these stories of Tapasvaji. He was a very, very magical, mystical, enlightened yogi. And he was like tapas, tapas, tapas. He's like, I'll go to a tapas is a very powerful way. It's actually a, it's a take on karma yoga, but it's like a important take. Karma yoga, we're like be selfless, be impeccable. And tapas is like, be more focused on the selfless part, because that's what gets you ahead more. You know, if you're like sitting there going, ow, it's hard, I don't like it, say tapas.

1:12:11
Because in Karma Yoga, we always say impeccability and selflessness, they're the same.

1:12:15
Gotta have both. But in tapas, it's a little bit more like, it's gonna hurt more, and suck it up, and that's cool.

1:12:26
It's true.

1:12:27
There's a, you know, you can read Pantanjali's Yoga Sutras, for example. It's all about the powerful magic of yoga. But he has teachings on tapas. And tapas is, it's the same as Karma Yoga, what we practice. It's just a little bit more like, really it's going to hurt when you're selfless. And it's okay. It's not that bad.

1:12:58
And it's great.

1:12:59
And it's more enlightening. So I wanted to offer that to you. So tapas is classically kind of this penance, practice of the physical. But it's also more than that. It's also Shaolin Kung Fu. So Shaolin Kung Fu, they did all these martial arts stuff. And to have the discipline to do that is tapas. I mean, like, can I get a black belt here? There's so many black belts who say, just to train to get a black belt is tapas. It's intense on your body. You have to go far beyond what you want to do. You don't want to do it. Self is like, oh, I'd rather sit down and relax. But to get up to that black belt level, you have to go beyond yourself. And I heard today we had a couple new black belts. We did a black belt test today and we've got two new black belts. That's cool. And to get a black belt means that you go beyond your normal state of awareness, your normal condition of attention. And it is because of absolute focus on not only physical technique, but also power. So getting a black belt is a tapas. Shaolin Kung Fu is a sangha of tapas. And we have that here too. It's an aspect of our school in martial arts. So I recommend everyone practice martial arts. It's a very powerful, supportive practice of enlightenment. So tapas is also an action, shaolin or getting a black belt. It is an aspect of the pathway to enlightenment through martial arts, which is what Bodhidharma, you know, the first teacher of Zen, the 27th lineage holder of Buddhism after Buddha, that's what he taught. So it's like, yeah, it's tapas. So we have martial arts tapas. And we also have the wonderful thing here. Like let's look at Anandaloa, where I am right now. Or let's look at Bodhi Mandala, formerly known as Bodhi Woods. These are temples, ashrams, places of power of spirit, where people come and they can have really elevated meditations, like tonight. If we didn't have this place, we'd be somewhere else, but this is our place. This is our home base, our mother ship, flagship of enlightenment. Then you look at Bodhi Mandala, this group of wonderful yogis who are like going ahead super fast. Everything's going really well. These are our ashrams. These are our ashrams. Dharma Villa, also a small ashram, but these are our very powerful ashrams where we get together. They're places where we practice yoga together. And it is in living together, being together. It is atop us. It's a way of enlightenment. Any ashram, any kind of monastery, any community that's tightly knit is practicing the highest level of this purpose, being together. And it's difficult, it's not easy, but it's the highest, fastest enlightened form.

1:17:32
Sometimes.

1:17:33
For a lot of people. Yeah, there's a lot of people just go out in the cave and then that's best for them. But I'm selling you on what we do the best. So the cave also stop us. You know, it's like, you know, Command Z or Control Z. There's a lot of ways to enlightenment.

1:18:05
Enlightened mind.

1:18:06
Yeah, so this is really wonderful. This is the way.

1:18:09
So when we are together doing martial arts,

1:18:14
there's a way to enlightenment there. In an ashram, there's a way to enlightenment there. These are very strong structures where when we are selfless and we engage in them, we go beyond ourselves. A lot of people who got their black belts in this sangha, they would never think they would ever get a black belt in my life. But then I just said, just keep doing it. A lot of people who got to very strong places in their career development, they would never expect that. So just keep doing it.

1:19:02
It's tough. Just leave it here.

1:19:04
And something happens. And if my teaching was leave it here, we'd all be doing this. What's up?

1:19:16
So, this is tapas.

1:19:20
The ultimate way of understanding tapas in our school

1:19:24
is yoga, karma yoga. It is identical. It's do something that you, if you come from your karma, you don't want to do it. It's like something I don't want to do, but I will do it anyway. And this happens so many times. It's like, I don't want to do anything. Like I have all these other things I want to do. Come here and work on this a little bit. Okay. And then, wait, come here and work on it more. Okay. And now it's like your part-time job. And you're like, oh my goodness, why am I doing this? And if you do it, it's amazing. I remember one time, we were, our sangha was in Chicago and Satori was there. And he was like, I got two weeks off from my important job. He had a good job in Hungary. And he's like, I got two weeks off, this is my vacation. And I'm coming to hang out with you guys to meditate and all this stuff. And then he came over and I was like, hey, welcome over. And I was like, see this computer? I'm like, so here's what you can do. And he's like, oh, okay. And he was like, I'm on vacation. I want to meditate. I want to like also, you know, see Chicago and America and have some experiences. Only we were like doing yoga like 18 hours a day. And so he came. He's like, I'm a little jet lagged. I was like, here's your seat. Look at the computer. And I guess what he did, he sat down and he's like, and then like after a week and a half, he just sat there and did the work. And I love it, because he's like, why am I doing this? He's like, I'm on vacation. He's like, I thought we're going to do a bunch of spiritual cool stuff. And then none of that happened and he just worked. And then I was like, that's a yogi. That's a yogi. Because it's not just that you're a stupid idiot that does free work. It's that you feel something. And you enter into a dojo of selfless discipline. It's not that you're an idiot doing free work. It's that you, I mean, is Milarepa an idiot doing free work? I mean, you could say, yeah, that Marpa took advantage of him, paid him less than nothing. He didn't pay him anything. So it's like, he could have been, he could have said, Marpa enslaved him to do yoga. But no, at some point you say, wait a second, what I'm engaging in, I know it's beyond my self-desire, but it is something spiritual. And if it's spiritual, I'll give it all if that's what I want. And I think that there's so many yogis, so many great yogis in this school who understand that. It's not a normal, it's not an ordinary affair of compensation in this world. Because I'm like, oh, hey guys, do some work for free, for nothing, for a while until you can build an amazing company. Then be millionaires or something, you know, be great. So we call it, you know, in Silicon Valley, you call it sweat equity. But here I call it karma yoga. It's like believe in something and don't even have sweat equity. Like have, have belief in, even if I think this business model is horrible and it's never going to work out, I'm going to give it my all. I'm going to fight it all the way through. I'm going to make this as strong as I can. And understand as a fighter, you lose fights at the beginning, but if you train, those fights that you lose make you stronger.

1:24:03
So it's not bad to lose something.

1:24:06
It teaches you. If you lose something in self, then you're still in self. But if you lose something in dharma, then you learn something super strong about how to elevate yourself in enlightenment. This is what Krishna taught Arjuna. Alright, so I'd like to conclude with an understanding. We've walked to the tapas, which is, you know, same basic Buddhist teachings, only Pantanjali had like a very intense and elevated view on it. Pantanjali's Yoga Sutras is a really good way to start to get to know Pantanjali because Pantanjali was just magic. And so it's really good to be together and to look at our spiritual practice in a mysterious way, because it is mysterious. It doesn't make complete sense.

1:25:26
It's like Zen.

1:25:27
There's a weird koan. This is one of Panchali's teachings. It's like, just do this, this, this, and this, and just be selfless and throw yourself into it. And that will resolve. That answers the koan. And it's true. So you take a little bit of like, this and that and put it together. Spiritual alchemy. All right. But it truly is understanding that the mind is not the self. That the mind is enlightened mind. of attached views, when you let go of yourself, and you struggle for something higher in meditation, right? That's the first place where you're like, oh my God, all my thoughts bother me. I struggle for something higher. Good. And then in your yoga, you sit there and say, I don't like this, I don't like this, I want this, I want this. Take that as your meditation. Struggle for something higher. Don't let the self win. Self winning in meditation is like, I'm meditating, or I have thought, I just like my thought, I'm going to just think that thought. That's not what we're here for. We're here for in that period of meditation, let it go, and be free of it. And when you're free of the thought, then all of a sudden you're filled with light and insight. Same in your actions, in your work. Don't just say, I'm gonna do what I want because I think this is gonna be better. I mean, I don't care if it makes you money. You can be Jeff Bezos or Elon Musk, and you're still a self, but you could be a lemonade stand owner, entrepreneur and be enlightened. I've on the, you know, lemonade is very refreshing. That's where I would be. There's powerful people, don't be caught in egos. There's ways of doing business at your level, right where you are, to be enlightened very quickly. So when we look at enlightened mind, meditation, mindfulness. You let that go. It's the strongest thing and then you, it's so important. The words that you say, words are spells. It's what a magician does. It's like a Harry Potter spell. You don't even need the wand. Expelliarmus is powerful. Words are spells. So you need to make good spells. All your spells have to be enlightenment spells. You say one bad thing, you create an evil spell. I'm not kidding you. I know this sounds outrageous. I'm not kidding. It is true. So never say bad things or troubled things. Say only things that bring things together, that make things higher. Only say good things. If you do that, you are 30% of the way to enlightenment. And then do yoga. Act. Act in a way that you don't want to do. Say, I would rather do this, but if my Sangha is doing this, if that's an opportunity, let me just be selfless and just do it.

1:29:59
This.

1:30:02
This is tapas. And Tapas leads you to enlightened mind. Through that process, there's a purification of the whole self. There's no self when you let go of self. When you let go of self, then your being is harmless. You don't do things out of self-action and reaction. There's no self-importance, going, fighting for something. There's no, I want this and I'm angry about this. You're not fighting anything. That is freedom. So give yourself a break. Through the practice of Dharma, when you have control and awareness where you say, I'm not going to hurt anyone anymore. Purity and harmlessness is the way that you transcend the self, from a fixed self to a self that is one and indivisible from enlightenment. We call it union. And then that is enlightened mind. Okay, this is my teaching for you. So we're going to do one last meditation. So this last meditation is an open-eyed meditation. I encourage you to look at me. And I don't do transmission meditations, but I do mandala meditations. And this is a direct seeing of enlightened mind. It is just where everything opens up and aligns. I know some of you guys are afraid of looking at me. They're like, oh, if I look at you when you're meditating, it will hurt you. I'm, yeah, I have a lot of black belts. So a little meditation is not going to hurt. So I would say that you shouldn't try to close your eyes and not look at me. The teaching that I give from the visual connection is something that's very elevating. So other people will get ahead if they see it and understand it. So don't try to stray away because you're trying to be polite. You're dealing with a very advanced meditator. So I'm not going to feel a little bit of trouble if you have like a thought in your head while you're looking at me. That's important. People get very, you know, delicate and I need to I need to tell you, this is a time for you that that really gives you an opportunity to lift up. meditation I Open the mandala and I open an energy field. It's a direct energy field and It is something that I open because I can't open it when I'm talking Because it can't exist with talking or thinking It only exists in a direct experience so let's sit up. And I know we have a lot of people here. If you can't see me, stand up, get to a point where you can see me while we're doing this. And sit up nice and straight. Let's bring the focus to the third eye. And let's begin.

1:33:59
you so so so so so so so so so so Thanks for watching! All right, really wonderful. Very nice. So, we're at a very special time right now. All solstices are really nice. Once in a while there's some exceptional elevated solstice. This solstice has an energy of a wind. The solstice gives you wing.

1:36:36
Well, if you have wings then you can go somewhere like a bird. So there's a very strong air and energy which is like fast and fiery and uplifting. And so this is a very special solstice. And especially for these very highly trained yogis, it's a time where there can be fast growth. And this is something that's been in the works in the Dharma since the last solstice, but we're getting to the fruition of it. And I have to say all the yoga leaders are doing an exceptional job. They're working right along with this energy. And where we're going to go from here is going to be hockey stick. We're going up. Yeah. So, focusing on yoga now is the strongest thing. And, you know, get a black belt and, you know, build your monastery, your ashram. Those are important things too. But we have a very, very strong focus on yoga right now. We had one yoga that just came up recently that hit beyond the $10 million mark. So this is Temple. This is Ken Jin and James and they hit the 12 million dollar mark just recently and they are going to get the advanced teachings the Shodan teachings on this winter solstice transit because they hit a really strong place and this is a really good thing yeah so this level I mean that's a tremendous level of success in yoga performance. And it is something that they worked so hard for. They gave it all they had. They worked how many hours? More than a lot of you. Actually, it's kind of the same as a lot of you. But they worked really hard and they worked really smart and they were very successful. And even in this difficult market, they were able to succeed. So, this is a very powerful thing. This is the first ST5 yoga to succeed to the right level where they get the advanced teachings. Now we are on the precipice of many ST5s getting the advanced teachings because you do yoga. Because you're strong in yoga. And our yogas are exceptional. You know with the ST3s, yeah, we spent like 20 years kind of like trying to figure it out. But once we were able to prove this multi-million dollar acquisition, tens of millions of dollars acquisition, the whole Sangha said, well this is real and that's what clicked off the advanced teachings and then they were like, well if this is real maybe all the spiritual stuff is also real. And then all of a sudden we had all these, you know, enlightened beings that came out of that same yoga. It is so important yoga to be selfless to do it so powerfully and perfectly and to prove it and Then now we now we're in a whole new world now. We have five yogas that are multi-million dollar yogas and Three of them I'm like Let's not we don't want to even have an acquisition. These should be billion dollar companies. And so let's create a whole new culture in America of spiritual companies. I mean, they're all like, we're spiritual first. We meditate, we're a company making millions of dollars and that's what we do. That's who we are. We're unapologetic and we're spiritual and we just do, you know, Buddha and Krishna's teachings of right livelihood and yoga. And in America, it's an acceptable thing now. You're not a pariah. And you can affect change in the whole business culture. And so let's go for those billion dollar companies where we say, yeah, we meditate. It's really cool. So a lot of good things are happening. I've created a whole new structure going into this is from the last solstice now. And I've from my Mahamandala teachings, I've created the perfect vehicle for now, for now until the next solstice. And I call it the Asura Mandala. It's the Diamond Mandala. It is the mandala built purposefully for right where everyone in the whole Sangha is. No one excluded at all and always a very supportive structure towards enlightenment, towards all successes in every way, in all disciplines of the school. So we're working with something quite exceptionally placed in the second attention for you, but I have to say, all the yoga leaders, all the abbots, are doing an impeccable job and they work with it perfectly and it will create growth and strength. We're going to be taking it to a next level of power in the next six months. So this is good. And now, you know, I have a lot of people here right now in Nandaloa. Ananda Loa. Ananda Loa has yogis that make Ananda Loa happen. Otherwise it would never happen. So, you know, in Bodhi Bandhala, we have great habits, great yogis all working together to make a beautiful atmosphere work. And here in Ananda Loa, we have great yogis, really, really, really strong yogis. So this room would have never actually, the great room that we're meditating in, wouldn't have been done if it wasn't for like Xochi and Naija, Donna, like so much attention, focus to make this actually happen. And it's a transformed place. Do any of you guys remember the first time we walked in here? It looks like a cave. Now it's elevated. And all of the things that we've done here has been from, you know, they're not abbots, but they are yogis developing. A lot of the SD3s remember when we started with Bodhi Woods and we're like, the first night we got there, we're like, well, this place at night seems pretty intense. And then we built that place out and we like balanced all the energies. We meditated like crazy, became such a strong place of power. But ST3s will remember when we first went there, it was like, ooh, we bought a house in the middle of a forest that has a whole bunch of mountain lions. That's what you felt there. So this is what we do. We give our best to what we do. And if we have a place together, we... Bode Mandala and Anandaloa, a lot is happening in really good ways. And Bode Mandala is a very, very strong group. And they get the benefit of, you know, the SC3s who built the place, and they come in and they're like, we're second generation. And now they're all like, they've generated up our fifth generation just on our own. They just made it way, way better because they got some infrastructure from the group that started that. So we're working here too, then Mandalore. Anyway, I'd like to say thank you. This solstice is a special solstice. Any yoga that you're involved with, expect to go up. Any practice that you're going up, going into, might be martial arts, expect things to go up. This is a time of powerful transformation. All the yoga leaders that I've talked to, big changes. They've been growing up to this, Big changes. They've been growing up to this and this is the time of power where we go, bam! All the yoga leaders. Lots of good things are happening. So we're going to go in the right direction. Happy solstice to all of you. Follow the directions of these teachings of enlightened mind and it will illuminate you and it will bring you to the next level. And there is going to be lots of teachings over the next few days. They might be in the second attention. Pay attention. Pay second attention. It might be in dreams. And, you know, I know I'm giving a lot of teachings like tomorrow and the next day and stuff like that to people who live in Hawaii. The people who live in Hawaii, I am giving extra teachings to, because they live in Hawaii. So I have to do that. There's just, to be in Hawaii, I mean, this is where I'm at. This is where Ananda Loa is. There's something exceptional about that. And I'm going to be increasing the teachings for Hawaiians. Everyone's going to get what you get, you know, you're going to get the right teaching for where you're at, but if you have enough to be in Hawaii, I'm going to start lifting that up. And I can't even put it into words, but it's spiritual. Spiritual, as we say in Texas.

1:50:03
All right.

1:50:04
Thank you all so much. Be well.

1:50:09
Meditate.

1:50:10
Keep your second attention open. Come to every teaching that you can over the next week. Come to every teaching that you can over the next week. We are going to start elevating things.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
