0:00:00
Tonight, I'm going to talk about enlightened compassion as spacious awareness. There will be four parts. The first part is, what is spacious awareness and the fourth part is the outer practice of spacious awareness. So, part one, what is spacious awareness? As a lot of you probably did in the last week or two weeks, perhaps, at least for people that are here. You stepped off the plane, as I did, at Kona International Airport. They wheel out that little staircase. And the door opens. You're greeted by this burst of hot air. And you step out. And for me, one of the first things that I notice is this sense of immense spaciousness. It's like my spirit just unfurls, it expands. And what I notice is, or what it makes me realize, is how contracted my awareness often is when I'm on the mainland, just trying to do business and get things done and caught in the very different energy that's in the mainland. But here in Hawaii, I step out of the plane and immediately feel this great connection to this infinite expanse, this great magical Hawaiian island that provides this field of infinite selflessness. Another example relevant to people here in Hawaii is diving. So a lot of folks have been diving this past week here. And for people that are not familiar with diving in Hawaii, we dive at this place called the Lava T-step that has these little staircase-like steps. And you get in by going down the steps and then jumping in the water and then kicking away. But if it were as simple as just going down a staircase, that would be fantastic. But it is not that simple because it's like going down a staircase that has spikes, like clowns jumping on your head, like slippery as if it's like greased with oil. And it's very difficult. So when you're getting in, particularly if you're a beginning diver or you're leading a team that has beginning divers on it, it's very difficult to get in under conditions like we've had this week, which is like a storm surge where you have bigger than usual waves and just very choppy, currency conditions that make it challenging. So you're trying to get in the water, you're working with all of your gear, you get in, you get your dive gear in, hopefully everybody's gear is okay, you kick out to your spot, hopefully you find the right spot, you descend, and hopefully it's a smooth descent, but sometimes there's a little bit of going up and down as people try to equalize, and then finally you make it to the bottom. And it may have only been something like seven or nine minutes from the moment you entered the water until the moment that you get to the bottom. But during that time, those seven to nine minutes, it feels like so much has happened by the time you get to the bottom and from when you first got into the water. But then you get there and you start meditating at the bottom. You practice our mystic scuba exercises. And your mind connects to the deep. Maybe you're doing the looking into the deep exercise, maybe you're holding the ocean, maybe you're practicing healing light, but that connection to the deep allows your mind to just expand far beyond itself to a point where the very part of you that you call yourself becomes extremely thin and then dissolves into that infinity. So a lot of you will remember from your dives earlier today what it felt like to be on the bottom diving. Maybe it wasn't today, maybe it was a few days ago, but you remember a meditation you had at the bottom that was very deep, very profound, very powerful, and there's this sense of spacious expansion that comes from that. I like the diving example because just minutes before that, your sense of space may have been much, much smaller. It may have been confined to where you hold your stress in your body when you're diving. It may have gotten as small as the area of just your dive mask. So your entire perception is just this tiny, what's happening within your visual field when you're diving. But then you get to the bottom and it expands way out to infinity. It's this tremendous contrast between the stress and intensity of the moment before, as it is for a lot of people that are learning diving or getting accustomed to it, versus being on the bottom and just being in perfect meditation, perfect with the ocean. So that's a little bit about spacious awareness. When we have it, when our spacious awareness is very limited. And so in part two, I'd like to talk a little bit about how to detect when you're experiencing this, kind of where you're in a confined state of spacious awareness to something that's much larger.

0:06:07
So I remember about seven or eight years ago,

0:06:10
the sangha was diving in Honduras at a resort called Roatan. And during that week, it was also the winter solstice, we were practicing stomach massage. So one of the things Ajahn had us do every day was like massage our stomachs to detect what our level of bodily tension was. So every night we'd sit there and we'd lay around with our stomachs, feel our intestines, and detect how tense are we. And we'd record a little number. It'd be like, I'm at three out of 10 on intestinal tension. We'd also record our breathing, our heart rate, and the goal is through the course of the week to see where we started out. Maybe you were at 3 out of 10 breathing when you started, and then at the end of the week, you'd observe this change and see yourself go from having very shallow breathing to eventually having and deeper and finally like very, very healthy full body breathing. So those are two more kind of moment to moment bodily awarenesses of the level of tension. And you'll notice that that level of tension is directly connected to your level of spacious awareness. is very large, the breathing is smooth, your heart rate is mellow, your intestines are relaxed, and your sense of awareness is just much bigger. Internally, you'll notice that your thoughts are fewer, your thoughts are more relaxed, your feelings aren't as jagged, there aren't things that are holding your attention tightly. You're not a fist, like an opening palm. So if you want to actually change your state of awareness from where you are and expand it outward, you can start off with these bodily sensations. You can slow your breathing down, which also means noticing where your breathing is. So, for example, right now, from where you're sitting, just detect, where is your breathing at at this moment? And for most people here, it's like very healthy breathing. It's deep breathing. It's very relaxed. It's very healthy. But now think back to a moment when you hadn't been meditating with the Ajahn for a number of days, haven't been diving for several days, maybe you were back at work, maybe you were at the Lava Two Step trying to get out of the water, and just remember what your perceptual state was at that moment in time. Remember how your body felt, what your breathing was like, and then And imagine, sort of this is like flipping the position, but imagine yourself back in that situation, back at the Lava Tea Step, back in a difficult situation at work. From that state of mind, consider yourself like recalling or reaching out to this other state where you had that infinite perception of space, where your breathing is incredibly relaxed, your intestines are mellow, where your thoughts are much slower, where you didn't have jagged feelings. And just even recalling that, even remembering that, your awareness expands. So our spirits, our natural state is this infinite, unbounded awareness. Our natural state is very relaxed. Our natural state isn't full of all these thoughts. It's not controlled by jagged feelings. It's infinite. It doesn't have a boundary between self and non-self. And when we recall that, when we remember that, it lets us start to expand outward. So we can start with these working with bodily awarenesses, we can work with recognizing the thoughts and feelings that we have and letting them go. Is this intention to have infinitely spacious awareness? So the way to do that is from wherever you are, even in your amazingly relaxed state right now, there's an intention and there's a visualization. So for the intention part, recognize wherever you are now as a bubble. So your entire perception is a bubble. Everything you perceive is inside of that. Now associate that bubble with your physical body and get a sense of how far that bubble extends from where you are. Is that bubble a few inches inside of you, which is usually the case when you're a little bit stressed? Is it kind of just around you and not touching your neighbor's bubble, which might be just being very conscientious? Or is it infinitely expanded? Maybe you're in a state of samadhi where that bubble is reaching very far out. But notice where you are now and now consider just that expansion, that bubble of awareness. And notice, just notice what happens when you expand that bubble outward. So you might start here and then expand past the people near you, past all the people in the room, and further and further. And you'll notice that as the bubble expands further and further, the number of thoughts you have diminishes. You'll also notice that as you meditate, the number of thoughts and the number of feelings that are coming up in your meditation gradually diminish, this sense of spaciousness increases significantly. You can start by working on yourself, but then afterward, what's even more powerful is doing it for other people. This is where you can really put it into action. And it starts with just observing people around you and noticing what is their level of spaciousness, what's their level of awareness, what's going on with them when you're talking to them. It could even be just people you're looking at and being like, oh, I wonder where their mind is at. what their level of, what the size of their bubble is.

0:13:41
In that bubble holds each of our senses

0:13:44
of our opportunities for life. So someone with a very tight bubble, like when your perceptual bubble is inside your mask, your sense of the opportunities for life are very limited. It might just be survival mode, it might be fight or flight, where you're like, I gotta get down to the bottom or else, I gotta just like take the next breath or else everything else is out the window. We've seen a lot of dive accidents, people who get very obsessed by like one thing, they have to just like grab this thing and they end up like grabbing the wrong thing and you know pulling something out of their tank or something like that. And yet, if they were in a larger perceptual space, they would see a lot more different opportunities, and their set of options wouldn't be limited to a very finite set. So if you're talking to somebody, if you're working with somebody and they seem either stressed or you just get a sense that in talking to them, their sense of the limitations available for their life, limitations available for the situation are limited or small. You can actually visualize with that person, you can visualize their bubble and visualize expanding that out further. So I like to visualize these bubbles as like little bubbles of gold light around the person. And I take that bubble of light and I just see it get bigger. And as it gets bigger, I imagine their awareness of their opportunities for life increasing. You can even charge that bubble with an energy so you could infuse it with love. So that person you're speaking to, if you sense, for example, that what they're lacking is a feeling of self-love, then you can infuse that bubble with love, and then as their consciousness expands, you're also giving this expansion of that awareness that they're very naturally loved by the infinite self, that's really themselves. You're really offering this thing that you're catalyzing it, but they're actually giving it to themselves. You can do the same thing with the awareness of possibilities. You can take a bubble and just expand it, and as it expands, wish that they recognize that they have access to an infinity of different opportunities for life as well. So this works in lots of situations. For me, actually, the other day, I was talking to somebody, and we were having a difficult conversation. And in that conversation, I practiced this on myself. I first recognized, like, where are the points where I might be potentially reactive? Where might my perception get narrower? And then I just expanded it. I allowed myself to be open to the infinite possibilities of life, to awarenesses that I don't even have coming into the situation. I just opened myself to the possibility that those awarenesses could happen.

0:17:21
And then I just, I noticed something open up.

0:17:23
I noticed something change inside of me. And then I remembered to do this for the other person.

0:17:28
I just expanded out.

0:17:30
I looked at their bubble and I was just like, we're just gonna bring it out so that their openness, their awareness of the possibilities for life is much, much, much bigger, infinitely bigger. And I just held, while I was talking to them, I just held that image, held that bubble there. I created that opening to that energy and that light. And I didn't come in with a solution. I didn't come up with a set of ideas on how we're definitely going to proceed, but through doing that, we arrived very organically, very naturally to a solution that I would not have seen any other way. So I'm going to conclude this just by offering this dimension of spacious awareness and I would like to do a one-sign meditation on the heart chakra. This is opening that dimension of spacious awareness. While you're doing this, I want you to actually visualize either that bubble for yourself expanding outward or I want you to envision either someone in your life or someone you know that's having a difficult time envisioning their bubble and expanding it outwards. So we're going to do this together. One song on the heart.

0:18:59
the the the the the the the the the the so so Oh, the the the so you you Okay. Thank you very much. Hello everyone. All right. So Merry Christmas, and welcome to our concluding meditation. We will begin by concluding with meditation. So let's sit for one song. We're going to focus on the third eye. It's going to be Playlist 3, The Clear Life. You So So So so the the the the So so So so So So So So so So so So you Wonderful. So I'd like to thank Anita for her beautiful teaching tonight and Marichi So this has been a very, very powerful solstice transit. And I'm glad you were here for it. Now we're shifting into a new way.

0:24:15
And in the second attention, it is a way that I call the diamond mandala. That is, in my advanced yoga, I've created a new mandala for the second attention, the spiritual vehicle of the school. And that is something that you can't actually describe. But it has a great power. It has a great dharmic influence. So, going forward from here, if your yoga and your spiritual progress is going to go up really fast. Yay! But, if you are troubled in your mind and doing poor in yoga, then you're going to get a huge correction from the universe. So, that means that you'll have a hard time. And you deserve it. Because you're unimpeccable. So if you're unimpeccable, if you're a jerk, you piss people off, if you are a mess, if you're not doing good in yoga, it's going to be hard on you. That's what you get. But if you're doing good in yoga, then you're going to launch into a whole new energy, a whole new level of success. So this is wonderful. It's good news. If you have a hard time, trouble in your mind, bad thoughts, bad feelings, you better fix yourself or you're going to have a hard time and then you're gonna fix yourself. So we're just bringing it up to a different level of I don't accept assholes. You're an asshole, you're gonna suffer the karma of being an asshole. But if you're doing great, you're gonna go higher, faster. It's a new way because it's a new day. So I really think that overall, things are headed in a stronger direction of Dharma. And you know, you can do it. So I wanted to say thank you. This was a very strong and beautiful solstice, and I think you've done enough. Alright, so thank you very much. I'll be available for office hours and merriment. Mostly merriment. Alright, thank you all so much.

0:38:20
Mostly hair mix. Mostly hair mix.

0:38:22
Thank you all so much.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
