0:00:00
Yes.

0:00:00
Oh, hang on. I don't know what the hell that was. You guys gave me links, I clicked them, nothing happened. I tried to get in, and then... Zoom just looks all different and broken to me. So... Uh, eventually, the last link I got just opened this thing, and before that, all the other links didn't. Alright. didn't. All right. All right so I mean you guys are all here that is good and I'd like to go over what we're here about and what we're going to do is we're going to yoga and the call of chakra yoga is something I didn't really know about very much until I met the all-stars they're now called the seven sitas or They were very advanced yogis. What they did is they remembered that Brahma said, this thing that I'm doing, teaching the Sangha, is a very small part of my dharmic work. that he had a bigger scope of Dharma that he was involved in. And, you know, he said that and I didn't, you know, kind of understand it. But after the seven became liberated, then they said, Hey, let's focus on what that was. Let's focus on, you know, that and then they came to understand just through their meditation practice, like Kala Chakra Yoga. Now every single student in this school is involved in the Kala Chakra Yoga, even beginners, intermediate Bodhans and definitely Shodhans. we don't explicitly practice the yoga. We're just a small part of it. And the Kalachakra yoga is the kind of highest most advanced yoga of the school. And it's a I think I've explained it described it to you as best I can before. It's a yoga that is not physical but it's a yoga that is a yoga of the mind. It is a completely non-physical spiritual yoga. Yoga, what you start to do is you start to get into the Kala Chakra. The Kala Chakra is just a giant universe of enlightened creation. It's a doctrine of enlightenment that was created by some grand master Buddha a billion years ago and some other Loka. And yet it is a extremely powerful structure of enlightenment in the universe.

0:03:50
It's ancient, powerful.

0:03:53
And so the Kala Chakra for our school is ultimately the most, it's the foundation of our second attention structures, the Kala Chakra. But the Kala Chakra is gigantic. And so what a teacher does, if the teachers are a master of the Kala Chakra, the teacher will apply the Kala Chakra and just the bits of it and parts of it in a certain structure that would work at a certain time for a certain group of people. So when you take the whole universe of Kala Chakra and you have enough mastery to pull out the right parts and apply them to a condition in balance then that is having the ability, that's called chakra yoga having the ability to take from the college chakra and create applications that are Helpful useful for people the college chakra is You know you can kind of deal with it in some simple ways But then we are a really strong teacher, like how Rama was. He would create massively multi-dimensional, complex, multi-layered, relational applications of the mandala. And then when I learned the Kalachakra yoga, I also started to see that what I would be able to do is, you know, from the Kalachakra, from the knowledge of it and being able to do yoga, I would be able to make complex forms that would be good applications of the Dharma for people and I called them mandalas. So the seven don't call their applications of the ala-chakra mandalas. I just call it mandalas. But they definitely say yes there is that whole massive kala chakra and then we can co-create different expressions of it and I call an expression of the Kala Chakra a mandala. So what I'm going to teach you to do is I'm going to teach you to get to the very heart and essence of this spiritual school of enlightenment. how to use these just thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of dimensions of Dharma. And I teach you how to use it to create an application. And just an application, you know, a mandala. that takes a million different dimensions of enlightenment and it puts just the right ones together that are perfect for this loka, for this yuga, for this world, for this dharma, So, well, you know, you guys have, you know, had some introduction to it. Like I did a really, really, really nice one, the Diamond Mandala. I was like, this is so perfect and so wonderful. I was like, that's pretty much all you need for the rest of this, you know, loca. But then more information came and things changed. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to be today introducing you to a new mandala. We have together, you know, even Nan Zabrago looked at that diamond mandala and that's, that was something that was really cool. Diamond Mandala, everybody in the school from beginner to advanced experiences enlightenment. But with the new Mandala that we're going to be moving to, it's even higher, stronger, more powerful, more enlightened. So we're definitely not going, you know, Diamond Mandala was a nice piece of work of mine, but this one is even higher and even stronger. It's something I can't do, something the Seven can't do. The Seven showed me it, and I was like, yeah, that's awesome, and I'm going to show you it, because I can show you it, but the Seven can't make it, and I can't make it. The reason why this is a very, very, very, very powerful special thing is because I've got a very strong group of showdowns and you can make it. It's in coming together in that unity that you guys can do something stronger than seven could even make. And it's also, you know, the seven always used to say, I would say, oh I want to teach this to my students, this mandala yoga, karma, kala chakra yoga. And they're like, no, no, no, they'll never get it. They'll never be able to do it. Never, never, never. And then, yeah, you guys can do it. I mean, you can do it. But the reason why they kept telling me don't even introduce it was because it has to be, that there's one extremely important thing. To learn the Kalachakra yoga now, to be able to focus on making a mandala is an extremely special, powerful thing because there's a reason to do it. If there's no reason to do it and you guys just want to go deep into learning Kalachakra yoga doing Kala Chakra Yoga because you're like an expert, then that's a different expression or need or reason for the Dharma. And then it would be like, you know, it would be cool, you'd have good meditations and stuff like that. a powerful need to create the mandala and that you have the right level of training. Those two, oh you're the right level of training and you're the group, you're the right group That is the reason why it is powerful. If you guys were all enlightened and there was no big reason to do anything, but you just were interested, that would be cool. That's kind of like what The Seven did. But because there is a need, and because we're coming together to do it as a group, that's what makes this higher mandala possible. It's a mandala, the seven say, I mean, the seven can see it, but they can't make it. And I can see it, and I can't make it. So coming together as a group to build it is a powerful thing. And understanding that there's a need to do it. The need to do it is because it is the higher Dharma and it's a Dharma that I can't accomplish and it's a Dharma that is the destination of the you know the highest Dharma, the highest destiny of Dharma for the school. And it means that it will create the structure that is necessary to bring the higher teachings for every student in school, but also future students. There will be many students who come to the school who become enlightened because of this. So it's a very high powerful Dharma. And then there's the you know there's the Mahatma that the seven foretell will come sometime in the future and we'll be we'll look at the school and we'll be naturally drawn to it. We'll come into the school learn be fostered nurtured, developed and then she'll become liberated and then I don't, you know, I actually know a bunch more things I can tell you, but she's going to have a very strong impact in the world. Kind of like, you might say a good author or something like that, but it's a big, very, very strong impact in bringing Dharma to the world. So that's why there's a need. There's a need for the current students. There's a need for future students. There's a need to be there for this great spiritual being, to give her a place to grow and be helped. And then there's a need for the world. So that need is very important to have in mind because that creates our intention. That's what we're intending to do in this mandala. And then the fact that you're doing it together. A group of students creating a school for the next group of students has a very great strength and purity. Okay, so the mandala is something that I'm going to show you and I'm going to bring you into it. So I haven't created it but I know it. I've been meditating on it every day and it exists. So, how would I say it? It's almost like it's software but it's not compiled. Like, you know, C programming. It's like I can walk you through every line of code so you can understand it. And then eventually you guys are going to be able to write the code and compile it, but I definitely know every detail of it. And it's thousands of dimensions, thousands of dimensions, thousands of dharmas. I would say there's 10,000 dharmas. It's a huge, massive application of the Kala Chakra. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to bring you right into it. We're going to start with just kind of an introduction to it, which opens a whole world of fundals to you. Once you know how to deal with the mandala, it just opens up a different facility for understanding the Kala Chakra. So we're going to focus on the third eye and basically meditate, just go through your thoughts. And then I'm going to, I'm going to guide you like a Sherpa through the mandala. And to do this, one, it's very important to think, to understand that all you have to do is still your mind. Like try to get your mind a little bit still, right? And that you definitely know that you can do it. Don't sit there and go, this is so invisible, I don't know what's going on. So you have to like really trust yourself because absolutely if you've gotten the College Chakra Empowerment then you live in these dimensions. I'm just going to be showing you a big picture. When we start to meditate have the intention of just being open. Have the intention of having your second attention of thousands of dimensions of the Kala Chakra. And I'm going to be, I'm kind of walking you through the design of it and you see it, you understand it even from just looking at the design. And then we're gonna do this practice so that you can implement the design eventually. But when I show you the design, when I show you the mandala, you feel the mandala. You understand the mandala. You see all the thousands of dimensions of the mandala. You see all the dharmas of Vrindala. You come to understand the Vrindala. It's not created, it's still in design form. But even in design form, you can get it, right? You understand it. So know that you, as a Kala Chakra-empowered yogi, have complete access to the complete Kala Chakra. And so, if I'm drawing your attention to a certain configuration, a certain mandala, it's something that you are, if you're empowered for the Kala Chakra, all of it. You cannot hold the Kala Chakra in your mind. You can't sit there and go, I think about this and I think about that and I see this and I see that. You might have visions and seeings and all sorts of different awarenesses of lots of things. But know that in your, what do you call it, your mind, your physical mind, you're not gonna be able to hold it, so don't try. No, don't sit there, go, I've gotta see it in my picture head or something. Yeah, I can't do that. So you have to say, you have to have a real strong intention to open your second intention and say, second intention, I am an empowered Kala Chakra, you know, yogi and I am opening my second intention to see what this next step is. This And, um, that intention alone is pretty much how you kind of like enter it. And then, um, you know, I don't know, like, uh, once you have that intention, um, you're to start to become aware of feelings and structures and all sorts of different stuff. And let yourself just take it in and let whatever happens, happens. Because once we start this, I'm going to be kind of like taking, I call it taking you on a roller coaster ride through the mandala from place to place, dimension to dimension. And in this session I'm gonna take you through the entire mandala. It's beyond time and space and it is many many many dimensions so it's it's definitely something where you're probably gonna have like a lot of different awarenesses. Just don't get stuck on anything. Let it let everything flow. All right I think that's all I'm gonna say for today. I'm kind of tired. But I could be tired and do this anyway. So what we're going to do is soft focus on the third eye and really set your intention to open this mandala that you're gonna make because of the great need because you're gonna do it together it's gonna be a very powerful application of Dharma and just have that intent to know that need know that you're doing it together to your Kala Chakra empowered yogi. That those things are all available to you, don't doubt it, be open to it. And then, yeah, just have a soft focus on the third

0:24:37
I'm going to be working with you. And I hope you will be with me. And I hope you will be with me. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and close the chat. Okay. You're welcome. Okay. I'm going to play it again. You. Okay. Thank you. Okay. You're welcome. All right. Very nice. Yeah, I think about, I think, um, I think half of you did a very, very, very good job. And the other half, it's your first time. It's kind of hard to like, maybe see and get, but definitely, you're going together. Always trust yourself and have a really strong recognition. If you got the Kala Chakra empowerment in this school,

0:28:53
all of this stuff is accessible to you. All right, so I think that's good for now.

0:28:58
Anytime that you focus on this,

0:29:02
you can focus on it by meditating to the picture of the little Kala Chakra mandala. Try that tomorrow and when you meditate to it, even if it's just for once on or something like that, you're going to see way more dimensions. Because now you're going into the actual co-creation of the mandala. So, yeah, give that a shot. See that. And then I'll see you guys again on Thursday and then on Saturday. So, we're gonna keep going into this. It'll become clearer. I'll show you how to understand it more and then finally how to put it together. And, yeah, I think you guys For the first time pretty darn good. So I'm happy you did like Extremely well, like like, you know, like it's just like second nature already The other half don't worry. We'll get there Anyway, thank you guys so much you know, I mean like, you know, I could do this with all my like medications that make me so like fatigued and just I have a dysphoria so I'm like what's going on? Where am I? Oh wait I'm in the mandala? Okay cool. Anyway so uh but no yeah everything's good you guys are doing a good job and yeah I guess next time next Thursday we will do it again. Alright, so be well. Thank you. Um yeah, practice as you wish or not and then next Thursday, we will go further. Have a good night. Thank you guys so much. further. Have a good night. Thank you guys so much. Kamsahamnida.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
