0:00:00
All right. Hello everyone. So these are all showdowns worldwide, right? Okay, good. Welcome. All right, so, we're going to be creating the new mandala for the school. This is a wonderful thing. You know, one of the beautiful things about our school is it's a school of enlightenment and not a school of trouble. A lot of people come to the spiritual path because, you know, they're suffering and they kind of dwell on suffering and limitation and then they create a concept of enlightenment that's impossible to reach and there's a lot of struggle.

0:01:15
However, in our school, what we create is a place where there's enlightened, where there's enlightened experiences. It's kind of just how we look at things. a sorcerer and you come across some trouble, you're going to use sorcery on the trouble. But if you do bodhicitta and you come across trouble, you're going to do compassion. It's just a happier way. And so instead of being a spiritual school where we're struggle and have all sorts of trouble, we're a spiritual school that looks for the enlightenment in everything. We say, so instead of saying, how am I not enlightened? Say, how am I enlightened? What's enlightened? What's expressing enlightenment from me? Where's that Buddha nature? What's it doing? So that's what our school does.

0:02:27
Instead of looking at things in a negative way, we're looking at things in a positive way. That's it. In a very enlightened way. What's the enlightenment in my mind, in my heart, in my experience? So that's the essence of our school. So that when people come to our school, instead of getting all grrr and finding differences between them and Buddha, they start to say, oh, I see a lot of happiness and brightness and I see how I am like Buddha.

0:03:00
So I think this is one of the very powerful essences of our school. And we're gonna create this mandala. Now you guys are all trained. So, we're going to sit in meditation. We're going to open ourselves up in the second attention with that intention to behold the mandala, to be one with the mandala, to be We're going to sit for, I think, three songs. Let's see. One, two, three. Yeah. We're going to sit for three songs where we're at the center of the mandala, having that intent to be the whole mandala, feeling all the places of power, places of light, your dharma, activating chakras, using mudras.

0:04:20
If you're sitting next to someone, watch out. So for the first three songs, we're going to be holding and feeling, being the center of the mandala. And then for the fourth song, it's going to be harvest time. The fourth song, we're going to generate. We're going to hit the compile button. It's going to create this thing that we've been training in and feeling and working through, developing, seeing. We're going to create it as a powerful mandala in the second attention. And then we have two more songs, the Crystal Dome and the High Priest, and this is where we're going to be turning the wheel of Dharma. That means activating the power and expressing, expressing.

0:05:27
So Harvest Time is making it actual, hitting the compile button, and then the last two songs are going to be expressing it, expressing the mandala. All right. Without any further ado, let's begin. so So So So So So, I'm gonna go. you you So, thank you.

0:06:22
So, So, so So So, So So so the the the the you the So, thank you.

0:07:45
So, so So so So So. So So. So So so the the the the so So, so So, I'm going to go ahead and get started.

0:26:19
So So so Now have the intention create and see every dimension of the mandala in gold light, highest You. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So So Oh, So so Oh, So So, so So I'm gonna go You did a beautiful job.

0:28:07
the mandala, the expressions of dharma. the the the the the the the the so So so So so So, So.

0:29:44
So So So So So So So I'm gonna go you you you the the the the so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Oh.

0:30:51
the the the the the the the the the The.

0:31:54
So, so so so so so so © BF-WATCH TV 2021 Beautiful. Beautiful.

0:33:04
This is so powerful for a network of advanced students, shodhans, who all have the Kala chakra empowerment to create the mandala, the second attention structure of the school. It's far more powerful. Yeah. The Diamond Mandala was that top-down hierarchical, the guru, and then, yeah, guru says, hey, do this. Decision making comes from the network of the leaders. Yeah, so all Shodons are, you know, now in the director's circle, right? The leaders of the Funga. And even in like decision making, I don't know if you guys know, but there's a plan. The plan for decision making is voting. Show it on vote.

0:56:09
And so if we're going to have to get some like software for voting, like something like votable. But yeah, we'll say, hey, I think we should do this and then people will vote on it. And then if it does come up, like the majority wants to do something, then it goes to the board. And the board, or the NAYANA committee, the NAYANA committee follows a process. And the NAYANA committee doesn't make a decision. They don't vote. What they do is they follow a process, and the process is the I-Ching.

0:56:56
So I took 32 of the hexagrams that I think are a no vote. I took 32 that I think are a yes vote. So when things come up to the board for a decision, like, hey, 90% of the people say we should do this. Okay. Then they ask it as a question. They throw the I-Ching. And then they say, oh, that one comes up on the no vote. And then the I Ching, and then follow the ones that I set forth. And then, you know, everyone might think something's super cool to do, but maybe it's not the right time. There's wisdom in following the I Ching, and there's nobody making the decision. So it's magical that way. The Sangha is flowing and not by anybody's decision. I mean, there's a democracy of the members, but then it eventually comes down to the I Ching going, oh, yes. I think that's magical. I think that's really important for a spiritual organization.

0:58:33
And I like following every solstice saying, What's the I Ching say we should teach about? So it's just flowing with the Dharma instead of saying, ah, we think or I think, I see or we see, we might see, and then we go with the I Ching. I think that's cool. So that's part of the new way. And that's why there's a network of people who, you know, you guys are going to vote on things. But then we're also like, part of the mandala is the mystery. So, I think that's fun. It is time for us to take a break.

0:59:27
When we come back, we're going to have a mandala, like a special mandala. In the great mandala of the school, there's a place for each yoga. There's a place for yoga. And so we're going to create mandalas for every yoga. everything that you're working on. So if you're working on people support in the org, then there's going to be a mandala for people support. If you're working on martial arts, there's going to be a mandala for martial arts. So we're going to be, so for every role that you're in, or every yoga that you're on, everything that you do if you're a teacher, everything that you do in the Sangha, we're going to make mandalas.

1:00:35
Mandalas. So, that's what we're going to do. After the break, take a 15 minute break, we'll come back at 1030 and then we'll create the mandalas. I'm going to have Ra start it off because Ra, me and Ching, we created a mandala for their yoga and it was exquisite. And I want Ra to talk about that experience because he can explain it way better than me. So he was explaining it to me and I thought, yeah, that's it. I would just say like, it's a thing, it's a mandala. But he explains it really, really well, so I want him to come up and talk about that. Very pivotal, important thing about the mandala. And when we're going to do these mandalas, we're going to be, you know, multiple dimensions at the same time.

1:01:49
It's within the great mandala, but it's like, you know, you might be like on doing three things, you might be a teacher, you might be a martial arts teacher, you might be on a yoga, and you're going to be like in three mandalas, three specific mandalas. Okay. Alright. Let's take a break. Namaste, I see the deepest meaning of it. realize in one birthday transit. I'm going to try to paint words. He gave me 15 minutes but I have a sense that But I'll try because first attention. What he is teaching us through helping us becoming mandala yogis are all the dimensions of enlightenment. In one go he's giving us everything before he transitions out of the sangha which is just a very limited way of putting it. That's why I did this.

1:03:54
What he's actually doing is really giving the essence of it all to each and every one of us by becoming us. After the first experience that I shared, that Ajaan shared to you all, yesterday there was another one which went so much deeper and that this time, last time, yesterday night, I could actually use words which made more sense. Instead of saying boxes, I could actually say pyramids, which I meant to say the first time. And it became so much more clear, so much more clear. The very first time that I went into this, This was actually two days after, two or three days after, I have no idea of time, a few days after going into the Sambhogakaya and it was, Ajahn had said, you're reeling from Sambhogakaya? And in that session where he showed the mandala, to build the mandala for our yoga, he started with that. He started with the very basic things like I explained in the first session but as he went deeper and deeper and deeper he essentially showed what is something what I call the essential mandala the mandala that is the source of all mandalas the essential structure of the universe the ground of reality, dharmata.

1:06:25
And in that experience, I went into dharmata samadhi where I could see the dharmata but I couldn't escape. I experienced it first as him. Him, the Guru, not him, well Him, vibrating through every atom, sub-atom, sub-string of the universe, animating it into existence as that essential mandala emanating from him as a center and last night it became so much clearer I really zoomed into that center and saw how it all starts with what I call the source before there was anything else from that nothingness what I saw as a kind of a symbolic representation of him as the Buddha looking at himself and turning playfully and that turn created everything. The waves of duality started from that center and it vibrated into all universes and that wave is also expressed as the mandala. So when I'm going to speak about the mandala, you'll see that there are so many ways to see it. It can be seen as waves, it can be seen as these structures, it can be seen as something that cannot be put into words.

1:08:33
But I'll try. And from that center of the mandala, which is the source, replicates, emanates the entire mandala. The theme that you will see here is fractalness. Everything is a fractal. Ajaan, which is the Guru Tattva, the essential consciousness, replicates itself again and again and again and again and again. again it starts mathematically you can see starts at zero and from zero is created plus one minus one and plus one can be broken down into as many fractals as you want fractions as you want until infinity on this side and minus 1 the same as many fractions as you want on this side but if you add this up to this, zero and physically explained in structures this is emptiness and fullness that essential Buddha point creates all duality to experience itself as plus one minus one and this whole creation is the play of that ultimate Buddha and from you see how there is there is no difference from that point to each one of you because each one of you is a fractal of the ultimate Buddha.

1:10:57
So when Ajaan created the mandala for us, which it is going to happen for each one of you, don't think of it as just your yoga mandala. Also see that it is actually copying and fractalizing the mandala we built which is actually fractalizing the ultimate mandala. A little bit about the mandala we Three ways of expressing it, I'm going to try to put into words. First, it's very tantric. The most amazing thing here is how it's so basic. in basic meditation with the Sri Chakra Yantra. And the most advanced comes back to that. So one way of expressing that Mandala is a Sri Chakra Yantra built in every dimension possible.

1:12:19
And another way is a point which is also a sphere at the same time. And that sphere, there are spheres within spheres within spheres, fractals. And another way is the wave. that wave as it emanates, it creates a flower of life. As it creates these energy waves. And this is what creates the mandala and emanates it. And everything is so balanced. So everything has its opposite in a way. And if you look at it just like that, the structure seems so rigid. Everything has to be balanced in a perfect way.

1:13:20
And I'll come to more on that. This structure that we created was so powerful. It was like 10 million suns, there were more and more suns within that, more and more, more and more. Infinitely zooming in, there is always more. And infinitely zooming out, there is always more. Which at the same time, there is only one. This doesn't make That's why you have to see it in the second attention. And in that Maha Mandala, you will see there are so many structures. One of the structures that I could see clearly is how Kala Chakra is really a vehicle. As you focus on that, it takes you to the center of the mandala. And in one way of doing it, as you go upward, there are so many ways to go to the center of the mandala, basically every way, but this takes you from here to upward to the center and it just zooms you in like you might have seen in science fiction movies when somebody goes into a wormhole it just zooms you in and that's the fastest path and in this mandala there is always so many little structures that are designed to bring you to the center. And in the center is where it all begins and it all ends. So another way of looking at this is a toroid, which you can kind of see as a donut. But the donut basically, this goes like this. So there's an upward moment and there's a downward moment. And at the center of this all, like, you might have heard theories of the black hole has, you know, a way of pulling everything in in one dimension, and in another dimension is spitting So this is that space where everything is created and everything ends and this is where a Buddha is created, a particle is created where somebody starts their incarnations and as they go through this, they are going through all sorts of lokas that are created from this emanation of the mandala and as they go through it, they come closer and closer to the center, completing a cycle to end at complete self-realization, complete enlightenment.

1:16:53
And our Mahamandala of the Sangha is built completely to support that in a way that we which each one of us, each being is, back to oneness, to where it started. And Okay, so I want to end with saying that one of the most important things I saw is In in the center when Ajaan I saw him What he did at the end was He he became every one of us and And that was the emanation that will keep going through us. Thank you. Okay, so there's something so essential in that that I can't articulate, but it is really the essence of the mandala.

1:18:33
And now I'm going to have Tara come up and give the instructions for how to make the mandala for your yoga, for your teaching, for in every way that you're in the org or participating, yoga, teaching, every aspect, you're going to learn to create the mandala and then Tara's going to give you the instruction. Thank you. Hello. Okay. Okay, well we're going to go through a similar dynamic as we went through creating the Kali Chakra mandala. And so we're going to start from the center and when we see the center, it's kind of traveling. You might have a sensation that you're traveling backwards, like thrown backwards into the center, or you might have a sensation that the center is coming to you.

1:19:48
I think it depends, but I think it's both true. And then we're going to see that center is kind of distributed. There's center everywhere, and everyone in your yoga project is the center. We're going to be specific to the yoga project in this case. And then you'll have a sense that so everybody is the center, and then everybody together is one center. So it's going from individual center to seeing center everywhere and bringing the center into unity. Okay.

1:20:31
And then for the construction, it's an interesting process which actually Ra always describes really well. It's this multiplication of, it's like these little diamond shapes multiplying into infinity. But I think you can have a different vision but it's that feeling of starting with a central element and building it out, and it just multiplies itself, and it's constructing the infinite form. And finally, when we activate the mandala, it's this seeing yourself as the source of light. And this light pouring out of every single cell of your being. And the tiniest little atom, whatever you're made of, it's like this light is blasting as if you're a star that's being created, exploding. It's the dust, it's the water, it's every element pouring out in the sensation of light. And when that creation and blast ceases, it all collapses back into the single point of nothingness or void, that black hole thing. So it goes and at the same time as the whole existence collapses into non-existence, the whole existence also expands into existence. So it's this opposite movement that actually cannot, like two opposite movements that cannot exist without each other. So it's an infinite collapse and infinite expansion. And the more the element collapses, the more the element expands. And that's it.

1:23:13
Yeah, thank you. Perfect. Perfect instruction. That's what we're going to do. All right. So, you're going to want to bring your intention. First attention to what you do in the Sangha, your station, your yoga, your teaching, what you do. And maybe you do five things. There's going to be a mandala for everything in the organization, everything that we do in our spiritual functions. So, it's going to be beautiful. But you will be, in the second intention, maybe touching five or three or two of these mandalas.

1:24:25
they will, they are going to be created at the same time. So, we're going to again go into the mandala with our intent, open the second attention. And then we're going to go into the creation, where we have that intent to make those mandalas in the second attention, make them real. And then we're going to play. We're going to use the mandalas and you're going to see yourself if you do yoga, you're going to see yourself working with the forms in the mandala and then the mandala's energy coming forth and making, you know, business success and wealth and empowerment, the yoga. If it's scuba diving, you're going to see yourself underwater. Powerful experiences of spirit. So these are, you know, when you guys are creating the mandalas, these mandalas are very powerful because you are creating them. So I'm not actually creating the mandala, I'm just like watching. I'm just all like, making sure it's done right. And you guys are doing an impeccable job.

1:26:04
And it's really great. I mean, like, Ra is able to sit there and explain and do it so nicely. And the Seventh said it would be impossible for you. And then Tara is able to give the teaching. So this is amazing. Yeah. So I was always like, I'm just going to teach you guys until you're so good at it that I don't have to do it. So I was like, first it was technology, because my students got better than me in technology. Then it was business. Students got way better than me in business. And then martial arts got better than me in martial arts. And I don't know, I can still meditate.

1:26:47
I don't know. Pretty good. So these are really good things and that's why you guys are able to make this mandala so that you are, I mean, you guys are doing a really good job and then you're able to bring forth the Dharma. So it's very, very powerful. That's why it's powerful. Very, very powerful. Very, very powerful. Very, very powerful.

1:27:15
And then me, I'm going to be kind of moving to a higher office. And the higher office is where I'm not going to be just focused on teaching the Sangha, my teachings now are going to be more broad for the world. So I'm not going to be working the Sangha system, you guys are going to be working the Sangha system. And then I'll be like teaching mindfulness to the world or something. So the things that I teach to the, because now I'm going to move to teach to the world, they might seem more basic. Because the Sangha system is so particular for a group, it's powerful. And then, let's see, you guys are getting it lifted up to do that work, you know, to be the guru of the school, right? All of you. And then I will be, like, teaching the world what the world needs. So it's a more broad audience. And they might need to know like mindfulness and like how to be stress-free and stuff. So, you guys will watch my teachings and be like, hmm, that's kind of cool. That's still like 10 years ago. I don't know. It might be more basic, but it'll still be cool. I'll still have my sense of humor.

1:28:52
I'm teaching the world and everyone's all, oh God, terrible, terrible. Yeah, so that's why I'm really empowering you guys are perfect teachers, everything's going really well, I don't have to do anything. So I get to go to a higher office. My higher office has bigger things. I, my analogy is Obama. Obama was a community organizer, right? And so people in the south side of Chicago got a lot of help from him because he was super good. And he's all like, hey, did you fill out that application? Because if you do that, you get a job. And the guy goes, oh. And he helps them fill out an application. He goes, hey, a lot of you guys are getting diabetes. You know that there's a health care center here and you can get free insulin, you know So he knew what was going on for everyone's little case, right? And then then he leaves and he goes to a higher office the higher offices president And so, you know, he's still helping them, but he's helping the whole country That's that's my analogy of my my higher office because I'm going to be teaching a larger audience.

1:30:31
All right. So what we're going to do is we're going to meditate. We're doing good on time. All right. So, the first two songs is where we're going to go into the mandalas. These are purpose created for the function in the sangha. Then we're going to play one song where we are going to generate it, have that intent to activate it. And I always see it in its most enlightened way, so that infinity of everything becomes like gold infinity. Actually, first three songs, we're going to go into the mandala.

1:31:29
The fourth song is where we're going to generate it. And I'll remind you. And then after we generate it, we're going to play. Yes? We made multiple mandalas at the same time. Yes, all the mandalas will be happening at once. That's right. Open your second attention. Yeah, all the mandalas will be made at once. Even if you have multiple functions that you do, you'll be making one mandala and another mandala.

1:32:13
We're just going to do one song where we're focused on being at the center of all the mandalas. The second song, generation. And then the rest will be the play, using the mandalas for all of the different aspects of dharma. Okay? All right. Let's begin. So. so So So.

1:32:51
So So So So So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So Oh, so I'm going to generate.

1:33:47
the the the the the the the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the the the the the the the the so So.

1:35:50
So So, So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Oh, yeah. So so so the so Oh, yeah You Thank you.

1:37:04
so So So So Oh, So so so so so Oh.

1:38:06
So so Oh, so you you I will let you go after I heat it up. the the the The.

1:39:03
the the the the the the the the the the the the Oh, Oh, So.

1:41:02
So. So So, Oh. the the the the Oh, Oh, All right, wonderful.

1:42:35
That was really cool. Alrighty, so, we still have a little bit of time. Sorry. So I can take questions. But before I take questions, what will I add? in my new office I have broadened my awareness. So, it wasn't like an enlightenment thing, just a greater awareness of stuff. And my first engagement is going to be in October, I'm going to be going to Kiev to meet a general. And I'm going to be like, so the seven set this up for me.

2:09:50
They said, yeah, this is the kind of stuff you're going to do. And I was like, I don't want to go to war zone, number one. They said, you're going to be okay. I'm like, oh, you also said my students couldn't do mandalas, yo. They said we were just kidding about that. That's funny. Anyway, so they said, yeah, you can do that. And every day, it feels like I meditate and go into a nuclear explosion of light. And then I come out of my meditation and I'm like, I feel like a newborn baby. It's true. And then my awareness grows and grows and grows, and I see and become more and more and more aware of things.

2:10:34
So, you know, when I was thinking about going to talk to the general, I was like, I'll talk about the Gita, art of war, throw in some dad jokes, you know, my usual thing. But then as things became more, things unfolded for me more, and I realized that this is actually very serious. I have to really help this general win the war, and that this is serious business. We all think that there's a little war in Europe, right? Or, you know, it's two countries fighting. But this is actually not a good thing because one of the countries has enough nuclear bombs to destroy the world. And the person who's got his, you know, the pointer finger for that button is a crazy person, a narcissist. He would rather blow up the world than lose the war. That's how he's thinking. So I'm like, whoa, we just think there's this little contained thing.

2:11:49
It could just be nuclear war. So it's serious business. This is what I'm becoming aware of as I look into the dharma of my new office of teaching at a different level. And I have in that office other powers that are helpful for these kinds of things. So, yeah. So that kind of stuff. But I'm going to be meeting the general and staff and I'll give them some sort of Dharma talk. And I'll be like...

2:12:27
Anyway, I'll... I don't know if I'll be able to Zoom you guys in, but I'll record it. And I'll let you guys... I'll give you guys the teaching. It'll be the teaching to some general... I have no idea what's going to happen yet, but I know that... that there's a very serious matter happening. And that it's... I was just thinking of, you know, these two little countries fighting, it's Russia, like, the jerks, just beating up on their little brother, something like that.

2:12:55
But then I was like, oh, you know, as I became more aware, I was like, wait, this is, Putin would blow up the world rather than lose this war. And that's trouble. That's the kind of stuff that I'm gonna be starting to work on Oh, yes Um I Have to travel alone. Yeah Yeah Yeah, um Yeah, when I have my the seveners trying to set up meetings. He said we'll set up your meetings.

2:13:41
They said, they just said I have to travel alone. And then they said that, yeah, I can't involve students, but I can involve anyone who's not a student. So if you know anyone in Kiev, I'm going to take you up there. I'll be like, what do I do? Anyway. Okay, we have 15 minutes to discuss any questions that you have. Yes. So this mandala, I was like, this is the shit. I was like, this is going to work forever.

2:14:31
And then all of a sudden, whoops, now this is going to work forever. But as you guys master the mandala, you will learn how to make changes in the mandala, and you will learn how to, even if it's necessary, create a brand new mandala from the college home. So, you know, you guys are doing really well. Just, you know, keep learning and someday you'll be like, oh, I got this like, what's down. And then you'll intuitively know which kinds of things to change. Yes.

2:15:11
Yes? How do students connect to the mandala? If they become students. Yeah, yeah. So anyone who joins the school enters the mandala. Yeah. Any other questions? You guys did really well. Oh, yes. When you talk to the seven, they all speak in one voice. Yeah. Like, are you saying sort of harmony sort of thing? It happens in my head. That's great. I see. I get an email from them, maybe just one of them.

2:16:01
And then they say, hey, we all said this. Often I talk to them on the phone and they're all on. Yeah. And you guys will get to meet them sometime when the. So now the the mandala is there, the spirit of the structure of everything is here. And then, you know, we we have to. Make the org and make a little voting system and communicate and make sure that everything's all good. And then they say, you know, when the org is, the song is at the right place, they're going to come. And then they said they're going to like show you mandala stuff. They're really good. Yeah. They're pretty, they're pretty, pretty special. Yeah. So that's cool.

2:16:50
Yeah. So any new yoga that we might come up with, we can go through our own individual process of mandala creation? Yeah. Every single one of you can, if there's a new yoga to be made, you can say, I'm going to initiate this yoga, empower this yoga, make a mandala for this yoga. It's pretty cool yes or so for the future if there's a need to change something so as As you guys progress in learning the mandala yoga, you will notice, like, you know, if the features of the world, the conditions of the world are much, much different, you can either modify the existing sangha mandala, or you might say, the conditions are so different we have to create a new mandala.

2:18:05
So, the conditions of the world that this mandala that you created, it's perfect for the current conditions and, you know, where we're headed. But like if a war broke out across the world or something like that, and like America's like getting hit by bombs and stuff, then we'd probably create another mandala. Like a Doctor Strange shield kind of thing. Question also, what do you mean by play with the mandala? What do you do with the muhtras? Do you imagine colors, like painting? Yeah, sure. Yeah, so what do you do with the mandala, then you are co-creating the dharma of that structure. So when I say play with it, see what it's like when you do a mudra focusing on it and see how you can work with it with mudras. You can find ways where you can work with the mandala. And then, you know, certain...

2:19:15
when you're focusing on the mandalas, certain chakras will open. Maybe multiple chakras at the same time. So, that's what I mean. It's like, you know, feel into it. Feel how you can work with it. Yeah. Yes. May I add one thing to that? Please. I... Earlier when I mentioned the Mandala scene may seem like it's very rigid due to, you know, it has to be balanced and everything. What makes a big difference is that this all started with the play of the light in various things.

2:20:06
And as we apply that to Paramandala, to the Uttaras and the Paramandala, we will find various ways of expressing that light. It goes beyond kitchens, it goes beyond structures, it goes beyond all sorts of fluids. It will bring the light to the Paramandala, it will become faroids, it will shoot people in Tamil Nadu, and it's all going to be really helpful for the realistic mind of students, especially that, to really hold on to something and come into play. Thank you. There are questions on Zoom as well. Oh, do I have to read a Zoom? And I didn't hear any of what Rama said, or Ra said.

2:21:04
Ra said that the mandala is created from the play of the Buddha and that it's not a rigid structure and that the Dharma goes on and on. Thank you. Sure. Let's see, where is, oh, it's in a chat. Mandala maintenance activities and practices. Yeah, so, so, so, you know, there's gonna be a showdown satsang once a month. And at those satsangs, you're going to talk about whatever you guys want to talk about and share with each other. And then in the end, you're going to end with the mandala yoga. And when you do the mandala yoga, it is all of you really co-creating the dharma.

2:22:21
And that would be what the maintenance is. I don't even call it maintenance, but it's the expression of the mandala. And it goes on and on, but that as a discipline, as a practice, is going to be very, very, very beautiful. Strong in the dharma, very strong for you to learn how to be a master mandala yogi. People that become Shodans also, they'll do that? Yes, yeah. So when new people become Shodans, they'll just start attending. And maybe they're just starting to work on the, you know, the aham om thing, but then they'll learn the mandala yoga by sitting with you doing the mandala yoga. What if you don't see the mandala? Well, you can't. Ha ha ha ha.

2:23:37
I can't see the mandala. So the most important thing is not what you see because your mind cannot contain the mandala. It is to have the intention to open the second attention to the totality of the mandala and to be merged with the mandala, the center of the mandala. Work on that intention and don't have any doubt and just see what happens because you're not going to see it. You might get little glimpses of like something that your mind can contain, but that doesn't matter. What matters is your second attention. You're going to start developing the second attention a lot stronger. And then you'll be like, oh, ah, I didn't see anything, but I know something, you know, little by little, you'll, you'll work on it. So don't, yeah, your mind cannot contain the mandala. So we don't, it doesn't matter what you see, doesn't matter what you think.

2:24:41
I was doing the mandala. And I'm like, Oh, I'm not trying to stop thought anymore. I'm trying to think about everything. It's interesting. Thoughts are part of the mandala. Okay, hold on, I think I'm almost done. Okay. Okay, how can I connect to the mandala more, see it more? It's really what I just said. Work on that intention. Work on, you know, if you just have that intent and you're like, I intend to open my second attention to the totality of the mandala.

2:25:22
And then once you have that intent, just be still. So this is a very advanced yoga, and it's all in the second attention. And having the intent, but you guys are wired in, empowered in, in the mandala. So it happens, you know, it's a yoga that has no first intention, really. So you just have to work on your intention and focusing the second attention. Someone asked me if I could rig the presidential election. I don't know. Yeah. Yes. Yeah.

2:26:30
Can you come up here and share? Okay. And I got to run through the rest of it. Go ahead. So, um, the first time I went to the dharmata, my mind went there, but I couldn't stay there. I came back. The second time, but I couldn't stay there, I came back.

2:27:08
The second time, it happened last night, I went there much deeper, I saw it, I experienced it much deeper, but I came back. This morning, in this morning's meditation, what Arjan did was, okay, yesterday's event, the whole thing started out of a blessing from Ajaan. He said, if you can go into dharmata, that would serve the entire Sangha, it would uplift the entire Sangha.

2:27:51
And that touched me so much. And I saw that that is the dharma because it's so selfless. It's not for me, but for everyone else. And then that opened it much more and this morning when he asked us to meditate it was so powerful because we had taken Karmananda and it was most intense Karmananda that happened and the whole meditation was like tearing me apart and I realized I was at the center of that essential mandala. I was the dharmata, the ultimate Buddha point, I had to stay in that balance because above me is a tornado of fullness pulling me this way and below me is a tornado of emptiness pulling me this way. This is the duality, this is the limited self expressed in different ways. And to stay in that place of complete balance where you are nothing, where you are not imagining yourself to be or believing yourself to be any of the emanations of duality that come from that clay but you always come back again and again to that nothingness that knowing that deep realization that you are the source of it all you are the zero not the plus one or the minus one or any form of duality or not, you cannot be any part of the creation, no matter how beautiful it is.

2:30:14
You are the creator of it all. When you really do that practice, it just zooms you into the very center of the mandala and it keeps going and keeps zooming in so deep it's infinite and at one point you realize that it goes to that point of complete nothingness, anatta, anatma and in that realization, which I had so much support from Ajaan because he was kind of like really coaching me through it in my second attention, to stay there. So let this go, let that go, stay there. And it became complete one-pointed focus. As you practice the mandala, don't get lost in the creation of different things even though you will have a thousand thoughts like Ajaan said have those thoughts but don't identify with any of that go back again and again to the very center of the mandala and reach that point of ultimate Buddhahood to make Buddhahood.

2:31:38
Any questions about the practice? I don't know if I should take questions. Thank you. That's a good one. I like that a lot. Yeah. Yeah, this is so important, right? You know, because you're going to come into like all these like powers and forces, intensities, thoughts and stuff. But you know, you're doing a really good job because you're not identifying with them.

2:32:06
You're just like, you're like going on a roller coaster ride through a mandala, which is what it should be like. But like, yeah, don't don't identify with thoughts. When thoughts come up, powers come up, feelings come up, don't think it's you. It's the dharma, it's the mandala. Very good. All right, everybody. One note about the changes and the new office I'm moving into.

2:32:43
We should not talk to anybody who's not a showdown about it because things are still changing. Like every single day I get new insight and I tell the Origo, I tell the Narayana Committee, I tell them we got to do something new. So I have new insight every day. The sevens say that this transition, the ultimate aspect of it, is going to happen in Japan. So I'm going to go to Japan, I'm going to get healed. I'm already healed. I think I'm going to blow up my doctor next week. Do I really need to go anymore?

2:33:24
You just think I am. You think I'm still sick. And I'm like, no, I think I don't need any more treatment. Anyway, so um, yeah, don't tell people, because things are totally changing and transforming. And when I recognize things, you guys will be the first to know and then we will, we will, you know, be able to make things orderly in the organization and communicate it properly to new students and everything like that. All right, yes? For the people who speak about the Kalachakra empowerment, please do not tell other Lodons that you have received the Kalachakra empowerment, and so the organization and also the set of efforts.

2:34:27
Can you repeat that? Yeah, Maitreya was just saying that we had some new people get the Kala Chakra empowerment and then they should be inaccessible about it until the NAYANA committee or I say it's okay to tell people now. Okay. Voila! Thank you all so much. Beautiful job. What a beautiful day. How amazing. 감사합니다. All right. I'm going to say goodbye to y'all by going like the end.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
