0:00:00
Hello and welcome to the final training for mandala yoga. So, first of all, I heard that last night you guys realize all this changing is a no-change change, but it makes everything amazing. It's like standing out in a field at sunset. It's like what happens to you when you're standing out in the field at sunset. That comes from I Heart Huckabees. Movie reference. Anyway, so it's a no change change. Like, you guys were there when I created the diamond mandala. And that was a massive change. It was a structurally, spiritually, a completely different spiritual structure. So it was a huge change. But did you guys see any changes? Well, what happened is a lot more people started having enlightening experiences. So it is a massive change, but it's a change that creates more enlightenment. So we have to do these changes, because if we don't, the organization won't survive. That's really why we're making the change. Because if we have like businesses, martial arts, and scuba, and all that stuff in the spiritual school, it looks cultish. And we got to get away from looking like a cult. So we're just going to like, you know, have everything that is not spiritual outside of the school but they were they're still sitting where they were martial arts doesn't have to change I mean like like scuba's in the ocean it's not in the school right so you know it's like the no change change Rama did this one time so he was you know teaching st2s and he was getting all this bad press, right? And they're writing bad articles and there was this, they knew that, you know, there was some leak of information going from, you know, the ST2 group out. So there was some weird character sharing information with some reporter for the New York Times or something. They were going to do like a big article about Rama being an evil cult leader. And then Rama goes to the satsang and he said, I'm quitting teaching and from now on I'm just going to run businesses and you have a choice to work in one of my four businesses and if you want to do that, then you can come and do business with me, but no longer am I a spiritual teacher. And then the article wasn't written because he wasn't a spiritual teacher anymore. He was just a businessman. And then his business meetings started with meditation and Dharma talks about whatever subject, including business. So it was a huge change going from being a spiritual teacher to a businessman, but it was all just more enlightenment. And when we really inwardly push those things, not in the spiritual org, not to be seen as we're the spiritual group that also does scuba, you know, or whatever. I mean, like, we're not. It's not something that we teach, it's not something that we do. We say we have good experiences with it, but it makes our spiritual org stronger, because it's not like we're losing the powerful tools of business yoga or martial arts or scuba or anything. We're not losing anything. It's just a shift. So this is how Rama ran his sangha. He didn't have black belts teaching people how to get a black belt. He said, go to a dojo. And then he didn't have, you know, he didn't have teachers teaching tech. He said, go to a school, you know, an existing school. And so, you know, it's like when he told us all to go do scuba, you know, we all found the nearest dive shop and went there. So Rama never, you know, we've been like really like, you know, spoon-feeding people and being really, really supportive. But if people want to learn the lessons of like martial arts and stuff, they can. You know, it'll be cool. And it's kind of a no-change change. Like, let's say they go to K-Hills and they just go like Wednesdays and Fridays and something and then they go, alright, now this change has been made. Keep going to K-Hills, Wednesdays and Fridays. Put out there on the internet, you know, classes open to the public. It's 100 bucks a month and that's it. It's really easy. It's like a no change change. We don't have to abandon, you know, the powerful tools. We just have to... it's just a shift. So this is important because a lot of the reasons why people were complaining about us is that we were pushy, pushing people into yoga and stuff like that. And we're not going to be doing anything like pushy anymore. So we don't want to be pushy. All we want to do now is offer people information and talk to them about benefits of doing things. So it's like not trying to force you into a karate class, but here's some benefits that we find from doing martial arts. And we talk about martial arts all the time. So if someone's interested, they'll go, huh, yeah, OK, that's cool. And like, you know, the yoga is being outside of the org is fine. We're not going to say this yoga is part of this school. We'll just start saying stuff like Vajradhara is, you know, he's taking those lessons of job yoga. He's created his own company and there's other people in the school who enjoy working with him. It's like a nice group of everyone doing job yoga together. So it's like really, really like fun for them. And then benefit, benefit, benefit, benefit, benefit. And then if someone hears that, I mean we can say that, but we're not saying that's our school. It's a Dr. Dara started a business. It is and some people like working together. Benefit, benefit, benefit, benefit. Same with all all the things in the school. So it's just a shift. I don't want you guys get getting confused that it's like that we're throwing it out. We're not. These things are still very powerful. But in general, you know, we don't want to force people, we don't want to push people, we just want to offer information and options and tell people what we think about benefits and personal experiences. And then that way they can move forward if they see value in it. We don't have like a direct pathway to the showdown level for new students going forward. It will be just so for for someone is a boat on the way that they would come up to the showdown level is they would get invited by the board. And that would be that, you know, we see that this person is just really, really the right person, right? You know, really doing meditation, really going for enlightenment. And if they don't do yoga, they probably won't get invited, because they're not doing the right thing to get to the Shodan level. Now the Shodan level in the future is going to be called the sustaining member. So we're going to have names just like, what do you call it, like a normal nonprofit. But you guys are in the director's circle, because you guys are the leadership of the Sangha. And so if someone's going to become a director, a leader of the sangha, we have to see that they're a leader, and that they have all the things down. So that's just it. They have to do that. And if someone is on fire, they'll do all the stuff. They'll go, wow, you think I should try martial arts? I'll give it a shot. Wow, I liked it. Oh, wow, you think I should do that yoga thing? Yeah, I'll do it. You know, someone someone will hear the benefits and if they want to do it, they'll do it. And if they, you know, check off the boxes and the board says, yeah, this is this person's ready. So, you know, that's the way, you know, that's the way we're going to we're going to do things going forward. We got to change because if we don't change, if we don't make this shift, then the org won't last. And if we do this shift, it does last. A long, long, long, long time. The Seven were telling me that making this shift in the mandala and in the tonal will mean that the sangha could last hundreds of years. And that is a really awesome thing. So, you know, when you look at the conditions out there, and you see that, like, you know, it's not gonna work unless you make a change, you gotta make the change. It's like the Jews in World War II. Like if, let's say you're living in Germany and you're a Jew, right? And then you see stuff happening like everyone's, you know, the Nazis are taking the Jews. And then a Nazi comes over to you and says, hey, are you a Jew? You say no. And then you live there and everything. You're still a Jew in your heart. You still have that spiritual practice. You just on the outside say, uh-uh, no I'm not. It also reminds me of a Don Juan's teacher, Don Julian. Don Julian was a master Nahual sorcerer, and his day job was being a Catholic priest. And and he's just like, hey, you know, like, no, I got to make a living somehow and going to go and go into this. So, you know, so we have to like become something that is useful and accepted. And we have to be inaccessible about certain certain things that would make people get upset, because the new world, as it's changing into, it's got to change out of like Rama 1980s vibe. So this is why we're creating the new mandala, because it's creating something brand new. So this, what we're changing out of is my way or Rama's way. So in fact, like when I created the diamond mandala, it wasn't Rama's way. It was a creation of the Kalachakra. I totally changed, I stopped using Rama's structures and I created my own. So that's what you guys are going to do a brand new way. The Kala Chakra exists, and it is an infinitely amazing vehicle of enlightenment. So the mandala that you're creating is a brand new expression of that. It's not the old way. Just like my diamond mandala, totally different thing, but it was really wonderful. And I was informed about what to put in it for my mastery of Rama's way. But I took it up a notch, and then you start to see really happy, more powerful things coming out of that. So what you guys are going to do is you're going to be informed by me and you guys are going to say, we're making something brand new and it is us making this Kala Chakra. And it's going to take things up. It is a very beautiful, it's better than the diamond mandala in a big, big, big way. So that's what we're doing with this mandala. We are making something brand new. So don't get fixed in your head about, you know, it has to be traditional or something like that. Follow the tradition. I mean, there is the tradition is to make new forms of enlightenment every time that we see it. So what So, what we're going to do is bring our attention to the mandala. So now I'm opening the mandala. Bring your attention to the mandala. When you bring your attention to the mandala, you start co-creating the dharma. That's it. when I say bring your attention, it's bring your second attention. Because the first attention mind cannot do it. Like when we're meditating, co-creating the mandala, what you'll be aware of in your tonal mind is some things happening, right? But your second attention takes in the totality of the mandala. And it's not something that can be contained in the tonal mind. So this is really good. And that's the way that you just have that intention to come to the mandala with your awareness and you start to co-create the Dharma. Yeah, when you put your mind on it, as a Shodan, with the intent to connect with it, it is Dharma. It's powerful Dharma. That's why we're going to do this in all Shodan satsangs going forward. And I'm making sure, I'm guiding you guys through this, I'm training you, I will be guiding you definitely on Saturday to build it correctly. I have no doubt that this is going to be built perfectly. And all of you working towards it offer a lot of power and light to this Dharma. So now I want to talk about adversity in the mandala. So this mandala is so powerful and it can overcome any adversity. It can break through any obstacle. Nothing can stop this Dharma. So like if like some evil demon appears, the light of this dharma, the light of this mandala just, the demon disappears. If there's war, the light of it ends war. If there's illness and death, the light of it solves illness and death. I don't know if you know what I mean by solving death. I mean, it's like the Dharma is seen through it and enlightenment is shown. So any kind of hardship, difficulty, obstacle that comes up, this mandala can deal with it. And then we will start with adversity in your own mind. So when we're meditating and co-creating the Dharma, you might think, oh I don't know what I'm doing, I'm bad at it, and you know I suck at this, I have no idea what's going on. So that's in the first attention, because the mandala is completely in the second attention. So you got to trust yourself that when you set your intent, you are plugged into the right... I mean, you are in the mandala. So when you just say, now I'm going to set my intent to co-create the dharma, then it starts happening. You are in the mandala. You can't be out of it. So that means that you can't do it wrong. Well, you can do it wrong, but if you have an earnest intent to co-create the Dharma, then it happens, even if your first attention mind is not aware. But by doing this more and more and more, you're going to actually develop a very big second attention that is aware of everything. Then you'll know. So yeah, don't feel bad if you think you don't know what's going on, because it's going on. And if you're like meditating and you have that intent and then you still have like thoughts and stuff, that's okay. You know, it's like you're trying to be still, you're trying to see the mandala, but sometimes thoughts come up. And self-thought is actually part of the mandala. So if thoughts come up, it's still part of the Dharma with the mandala. And I am going to play a song for us to meditate to. Okay, so we're going to meditate to Mystery School. So bring a focus to the third eye, light focus, set that intention to open your second attention to the totality of the mandala. Alright, and let's begin.

0:21:33
the the the the the the the the the the the the So the So, so So, So. so So. so so so the All right, very good. Very nice. All right. So you guys have all the training you need to do this on Saturday. Saturday we're just going to, we're going to do it.

0:30:31
We're going to come in, sit down, probably, you know, do about an hour where we sit and meditate and co-create the mandala. So I just want you to dress well. So even if you're going to be sitting at home in your room on Zoom, I want you to dress intentionally. Could be spiritual, could be business, just intentionally dress. Make yourself high tonal dressing. Okay, that's all folks. Thank you so intentionally dress. Make yourself high tonal dressing. Okay, that's all folks. Thank you so so much. Be well, and then I'll see you on Saturday. Okay, bye.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
