0:12:01
So right now, I have late stage cancer, but I feel fine. I feel wonderful at 100%. That said, I'm going to go into chemo treatments, radiation, and possibly also operations, so it's going to suck. But while I'm here, I'm going to give you the As Krishna would say, this is my opinion.

0:14:03
That's what he said after the backup. So for the whole Sangha, I would like even intermediate students to learn how to teach, Bodans to teach, and Shodans to teach, and Arhants to teach. You know, while I'm here, I mean, we have something so powerful and so helpful, and the more that we can share it, the more beautiful it is. and then in this time this would be a good thing to share. It's very powerful. During this time, which I'm going to say from the next solstice for a one-year period, whether I'm alive or dead, I'm going to be teaching a set of powers of teaching, of which there are many and they're spectacular. They have many dimensions and they really are the way to really truly help someone. Not in a I'm going to help you ego kind of way, but like the really powerful ways of the cities for teaching.

0:15:41
So I'm going to teach that. We're entering into, once we get to the summer, even if I'm like sick in chemo or something like that, I'm gonna teach this in the second intention. So I'd like us to figure out the next round of teaching, the org, and I'd like everyone to teach. Now, some of you, especially especially Arhants, you're like, you have a resistance to teaching. You're like, oh, I had a bad experience in the sangha, and so I'm going to teach a different way.

0:16:20
And I want to teach a different way. And I want to tell you about this for now and for the future, you idiots. It's going to happen. If I'm dead, you're going to say, I want to teach my own way. All right, don't. Make your own. It's like, you study with like a great, like Funakoshi karate master, and you go, you know what?

0:16:45
I'm going to make my own like corner school karate school, which is like not associated to Funakoshi, and it's just whatever I come up with. If you do that, you will diminish the power. If you go to any Shotokan karate school, they have a picture of Funakoshi right in the middle of the dojo and they say there's something powerful about that person who started this and because we have that heart connection and that faith, then you get way more power than if you're, you can go to a dance studio instead of a karate studio, right? So, align yourself with the school.

0:17:44
Don't just go out there and say, I'm mad at the school, so I'm now going to make my own thing. It's going to be Joe Kwon Do. Whatever your name is, put a chi or a tie or something at the end. And then also put two middle fingers, because that's what you've accomplished. That's your heart. If that's what you do with these teachings, you come here and you say, I don't like things and I'm going to do it my own way. Then put two middle fingers in the beginning of your spiritual study and the end of your spiritual teachings.

0:18:21
And I'll say, that's what you mean to me. And then go ahead and teach. You can have your whole experience and all this wild experiences. It's just not enlightenment. When you have the lack of fidelity to an enlightened teacher, it's a bad karma. And if that's how you want to teach, then teach that way. But it is absolutely not Ashira, this school. So I want you to have a recognition that what you've learned so far came from this school. And if you wanna say, oh, I wanna do it different cause I'm all weird and stuff like that.

0:19:08
If it's coming from ego, you will absolutely break yourself off from all of the blessings of this school. And guess what got you to here? The blessings of this school. The structures of the school, the enlightened empowerments, the second attention of the school. You want to do anything your own way? Then, Mazel Tov, you know, go ahead and do it. It's just that don't think ever that that's part of my structure. You want to step out and do your own thing? I'm talking about you guys in the future after I'm dead. Like, you guys want to go do your own thing? 

0:19:57
No, no, no. It's always strength and coming together. Unity. So when you say, I disagree with the Sangha org and I want to do whatever I want to do and I'm just going to do it myself, then let me tell you right now, you've left my structure and Rama's structure and you're doing whatever you want to do. I remember meeting all these like 10th degree black belts. They're like, Oh, I'm a 10th degree black belt. I learned this, this and this and I made up my own style and now I'm a 10th degree black belt. And I'm like, I'll knock you out in one punch. But I respect that you know a whole bunch of stuff. but it's useless, it's unfortunate for their students.

0:20:53
I had that joke. There was this guy who was like, oh, I'm like a eighth degree black belt and he's teaching children. He's like, I'm the best and have to pay him a lot of money. And then after a while, it came out that he wasn't really a black belt at all. He just like kicking kids. So I would say that to you. If you all of a sudden know more than me, know more than Rama, and you wanna do your own thing, and say, I'm gonna advance my students better because the Sangha is difficult.

0:21:31
How many thousands of stories have I told you about how the Sangha is difficult? Buddha's Sangha and how people came enlightened. Many, many teachings of in the Sangha how people face adversity in the Sangha and transformed into enlightenment. And if you want to run away from Here's my one teaching. You are a loser and you're running away. You are stepping out of the Rama Sangha. And everything that had helped you, even though you said, who is it? I don't like it because it's hard. Well that's what's so good about it.

0:22:17
You're like, well, I have my student. I want my student to not have a difficult time. I want to help them, not to be hurt. Let them be hurt. Throw them in, you know, in the deep end of the pool. Come on, like, you can't take responsibility for their enlightenment. You have to give them the greatest opportunities. And if you see our school, the school that you've been in for many years that helped you so much as evil, then you have trouble in your mind as a teacher. And if that's the karma that you follow, you are teaching your students in the worst direction. That's what, you know, Devadatta did. Buddha's cousin, who was like, I love you so much, you learn so much, and then he goes, actually, now I want to take students away from you, Buddha.

0:23:22
So if you want to follow that karma, be my guest. It's not my recommendation. But if you want to do it, explore that eternity. But it's not my teachings. It's not the teachings of this lineage at all. So a lot of you need to like, get straight with your teacher. And stop being like, oh I don't like people, the sangha's mean. It's like, yeah it's difficult, of course. Go to any karate sanga. Do they all let you beat them? No, they challenge you. Come on.

0:24:08
It's like, hey, you're in the dojo, we're going to challenge you with the best of the best. But it's a structured way where you can develop yourself. So don't have a bad attitude about the sanga. And if you do, don't act upon it to a student. Otherwise, add Dharma. Now, I also want to say, as we go forward in the future, there might be some of you who want to teach in powerful ways. Like Ra is in Southern California and he's really going for it as a spiritual teacher. And it's a yoga.

0:24:58
And let's say, you know, Kenjin might want to teach in China. And in China, you might show up, it's like wonderful. I want you to reach as many people as possible with the teachings of the Dharma. And I want you to reach them in their language or in the way that you can reach them. And And so this is a really good thing. That is not outside of Ashira. It is 100% in the picture. So there's a beautiful Tanka of Buddha in the middle, giving the perfect, big Buddha, giving this perfect teachings and he's got some like strong arhants who say, we're with you Buddha. But then in the north and the south and the east and the west and all over the place in the Tanka, there's arhants who became enlightened and they went to a different region, a different place, for whatever reason they were drawn there or maybe they're from there.

0:26:28
And they went there and then they experienced the Buddha teachings coming through them to all new students to lift them up. Now the thing about this one thangka is that in all sorts of places, the Himalayas, or the swamps of Burma, Calcutta, whatever, it's like all these different places, there's many people who are drawn to the Dharma. And whatever you're drawn to teach, there's many people drawn directly to you. It's your own special Dharma, but it is Dharma. So I would say, and this is my message going forward, teach. As Buddha would say, after many teachings, he would say, share the way. If you recognize this teaching of your life, share the way. And that means teach. So I want you to teach. Even after I pass away, I want this Sangha, even after you pass away, I want you to create enlightened students who are going to teach further. And you can, and you are doing it. I just don't want to make mistakes. So I'm making a correction.

0:28:02
Because 90% of you are doing great, but 10% of you shouldn't make a mistake. You are great and don't make a mistake. And then that puts you back in this beautiful Tanka with the Buddha. Because if you say, I'm going to go off and do my own thing. I read a book, heard another teacher, something else. But you have to look at what got you to this place. Don't quit on it. Maybe read other books and incorporate it so that it's not something different. It's not where one becomes two. It's where there's unity. You can read a book by Adi Shakti or Gangaji or all these great teachers and you can say, okay, I can integrate this. I can bring this into my teachings here. But if you have a bad attitude because you're all, my sangha was mean to me, my guru yelled at me. I had a bad experience. That's the place to get over. And it's also a place to have the right experience and say, reflecting on this, this was so good for me. And for me now to say, now I'm at a different level and I don't like it, is, and hearing this from me, no, no, no, no, no, no, you're wrong.

0:29:49
You're wrong. You need to take in everything that you've learned in this school and not dismiss it. Take it all as lessons. And then for your new students, even though you want to like cuddle them like babies, I understand that, I understand that. But take your baby and throw it into the river and tell it how to swim. And now you think it's going to kill a baby, it's going to make the baby stronger. Except for that one time. Or that other time. No, but I'm not kidding. This is what you have to do.

0:30:35
To have a bad attitude towards your teacher and your sangha and think that you know a better way is very, very wrong. If you feel that way, talk to me and I will demolish you. Or, if you have great wisdom, perfect wisdom, you'll demolish me. But I will demolish you, because this all comes from egotism. So, if you want to hold them out of the great structures of this school that makes you enlightened, then do whatever you want to do. But recognize that this is a school of enlightenment. And if you try to hold them into a partiality, you don't, because you're trying to save them, help them, because you like them, you're not helping them. Push them into a fight, like in a martial arts dojo.

0:31:43
And stop being so, don't be a helicopter mom. You know what I'm talking about? Come on, let them experience some stuff. So I mean, if you do that, you're not going to be online with my teachings. You'll be teaching your small group of students and you'll be like, I'm trying to help you. It'll be so much into your ego or your personality that doesn't help them. Give them everything that the whole school has given you, even though you didn't like it, even though it was painful, give it to them, let them have it.

0:32:29
Because if you try to hold them back and take care of them, then you're definitely not helping them. So, this is a big, important lesson going forward. Because, you know, if I'm not here, you guys aren't gonna listen to me. And then you'll be like, oh, the org made some bad idea, but I really love my students, so I want to take my student away. If you want to take your student away from what the org says, then you're limiting your student's enlightenment. And that is sad.

0:33:13
That is fact. You need to understand that the Sangha Org is coming from Rama's teachings directly through me and I've been sitting around here for like a few years accepting it, fine-tuning it, and saying this is what we need to do as a dojo going forward as a spiritual school. And if you have a different opinion, go to Buddha and say, I have a different opinion. Bad idea. I'm going to tell you right now, cross me and the org. Wrong direction. I mean, go your own way and all of the powers of the Shura, even if you've been empowered with the advanced teachings, if you disagree with me and my organization, you cut yourself off in that disagreement.

0:34:18
And then you get to go and do your little magic, your little skill sets, and you are totally caught off from the big picture here. And so I would say, don't do that. There's a million ways to see the power of the structure, even if I'm not here. You can say, wow, this is amazing. This is so strong, so beautiful. And then if everything that you say is trouble, stuff like that, that's all your personal reaction. That's your ego. And if you teach your students upon the reaction of your ego, you are killing your students enlightened. I want you to recognize that. It's like when you go, oh the org said this and I don't like these people and when you do that you are totally ego. I don't care if you're an Arhant. You are ego removing yourself from an enlightened structure of your teacher who helped you, and the bigger picture of Brahma. And you're doing your own thing.

0:35:47
So you create your own Cobra Kai, that's all cool, you know, it was a good Netflix series. You know, do your own thing. But I want you to know that that's where you draw the line. Don't follow my teachings, you draw the line and do your own thing. If you do that with your students, whoa, bad idea. Just coming from forever with how to teach, Krishna's teachings, anyone, any enlightened teacher's teachings, teachings. You draw that line, bad idea. See I have to tell you guys this for the future. Because in the future there's going to be like some idiot who goes, I think this and blah blah blah blah blah. And I want you to all know I have two middle fingers in my mudras which is no you're wrong and everyone knows it's true. It's like when Kala Chakra started saying his shit and everyone's all like whoa and everyone's all like he's trouble.

0:37:20
So this is what we have to do. We have to say, now that I'm here, I'm here to be able to cradle Kala Chakra because I love him and I can see him through to a different stage. But when I'm gone, no, uh-uh. When I'm not physically here, I will have a lot of dharma to help, but mm-mm. And the Org can't accept things like this. The Org has to be strong and focused. And if you start to be silly and goofy and weird and do your own thing, the Org will say, you go do your own thing and please enjoy.

0:38:05
Please enjoy, but you're not part of the Sangha anymore. So when I'm gone, what we're doing now, what's happening is we're tightening things up. And so I have a broad, mutual understanding for many students. And when I'm gone, the org has to be very, very focused and tight for things to go forward. And so you having some big, goofy ideas are not going to be part of this organization. They're going to cut it down and they're going to be like, we are a strong org focused on, you know, the beliefs of this school. And if you go outside of it, then... Then you're going to be a mosquito zapped in Hawaii. All right, so I have another point that I want to bring up.

0:39:34
So, we've been, ever since we first hit Appbuddy's success and the Kala Chakra Empowerments, it's been very powerful and it's very strong. And I've been watching and it's like enlightenment is blowing up everywhere and we even had some Bodans and even brand new students going to moksha. And now what I'm going to do right now is I'm going to put a big suppression on that. I'm going to put the Saturn down on that. It makes it more intense. It, it makes you feel like it's difficult, but that's what we need to do. If I'm not here, if I'm here, I can juggle a bunch of new enlightened people. But what we need to do as a Sangha is have a really strong structure, which is Saturn. And that means that just because, I mean, we're really close in streamline, to come up and everyone, there's like, I don't know, a dozen or 2000 students who can get the Kalachakra because they're going to hit that million dollar mark.

0:41:09
And I was like, cool. At that time, and now I'm changing. And here's what I think. I saw this one student of Phoenix. She was a student for a very short period of time and she got moksha. And she was like, oh wow okay cool I met this and I'm all good and everything's and I had moksha, and she did not become a shodan. She like flaked off. So someone who becomes enlightened at this school, even if they become enlightened, that's not the point here actually, it's to be strong in spirituality. And she became enlightened, she went around and she tried a little, and she flaked off and flaked out. And so someone like that can get possessed with demons and all sorts of things.

0:42:11
It's like enlightenment, you could be a big weirdo. I've known a lot of big weirdo enlightenment people. But our school is a school of strength and power and development, of cultivation and elevation. So, you know, there's a lot of stories of people who go to some guru in India, they fly over from LA and they see the guru and they go, and they go crazy. And then they're like, oh, and they're totally goofballs in their lives. That's not this school. So I don't want to do that anymore. So from now, if someone is going to be a candidate for the Kala Chakra empowerment, for the enlightenment teachings. Because once they open to it and you give them, if you give a Kala Chakra empowerment, you have to mean it.

0:43:22
You have to really, really mean it in your heart of hearts that you know they're ready and you give it. Because I'm not going to give any more. It's all you. Because all of you, it's smoldering as a red coal in your heart. So all of you have what it takes, all of you have the enlightenment teachings, but don't do it to someone who is not prepared. a school of higher performance requirements. Because when they get there, then when they get it, it will be more assured and then it won't be wasted and it will be better.

0:44:14
So this is what I want to do from now on. There will be exceptions while I'm alive. I will make exceptions because I'm the governor of the state. However, I really want for us, for now on, here's what I'm going to say. You have to be a tuition-paying boat on for eight years. One, that's your first qualification. Two, you have to be a part of a yoga that makes a million dollars in that year. Those two things, you're a yogi and you've been around enough. Because, you know, Streamline might make some money really quick.

0:45:15
And then I look at it and I'm like, you know what? No, I'm gonna give them 10 more years. I look at them and I'm like, you guys are great. You're wonderful. I'm gonna give you 10 more years of work, work, yoga. Just keep doing it. There's something to reach. And you might reach that on year two and then just keep going. Just keep training. Keep studying, keeping impeccable, keeping selfless.

0:45:47
I don't want somebody like reach that, some people could reach that in one year or something like that, right? And I'm like no, no, no, no, no, no. This school, let's put that Saturn energy in, which is discipline. Powerful energy of discipline. It doesn't have to happen fast. But it's a real school, and if it happens, it's good. you know, goofball ST6s who, they were like, oh, it's inspired and they got some enlightenment. I'm like, okay, cool. That's cool. That's good that you got, like, you're not a black belt, you didn't do anything in your career, all this stuff.

0:46:41
I'm glad that you have a moksha, you have some enlightenment. But no, this school is a school of Shodans. Shodans. I don't care if you're enlightened or a Shodan. Impeccable Shodan. Because frankly, I've seen a lot of enlightened Shodans be idiots. And I've seen a lot of... What do we call it? True heart shodans, no ego shodans, selfless shodans. Yeah.

0:47:30
have seen have stronger connections to the Shodan powers than Arhant who's like, oh I think I know everything. I'm like, oh well, beginner's mind, you don't know anything. And then there's a lot of other Shodans who are expressing greater enlightened power. So, I want you to take this seriously. Don't be a big goofball. If you think you're an arhant, then really, remember my teaching on enlightened conduct? Show me that. Show the whole song of that. And if you just think what you know is best, then that's my teaching for you a long time ago.

0:48:41
Wake up. You think you know everything. Show us enlightened conduct. Bring everybody up. Bring everybody up. And if you don't, and you're supposed to be an arhant, everyone's gonna be like, you're lame. Because here's what I do. When I talk, I bring everybody up. And if you're an arhant, and you say something to someone, sounds like an opinion, if it doesn't bring people up, you might be talking to your yoga team.

0:49:12
If it doesn't bring people up, if your voice about work doesn't make people go, wow, I feel good, then you have a problem as an arhant. You're weak. You're weak. You're unimpeccable. And so... Around me? Okay. I thought you were doing it for yourself. Are you doing a dance? Yeah, it was a mosquito issue. Yeah, so, you know, this is the thing that we need to wake up to. You know, Arhats, Shodans, that it's not a game, and it's not an opinion, it's what works.

0:50:27
And in all of your little experiments of what's going to teach and what you're going to do, you have to look at what works and you can't be judgmental. You have to just see, wow, that person's doing dharma and the thing that I'm doing might be garbage. And you need to say, if what I'm doing is garbage, that means I have a big ego here. And guess what? You'll be able to see it very easily if you see it through truth. All right. So, I really want to give some people this opportunity to teach anywhere outside of the Ashira structure but within it. So I want to say to intermediate students, Bodans, and Shodans, like starting in the summer, I want you to teach.

0:51:23
Just go out there and teach. Once a week, teach. And if you teach, I'm going to be giving the inner transmissions of the advanced teaching siddhas that my teacher gave me, and that's what I want to give to you. And the teaching siddhas are the cleanest, happiest, brightest, beautifulest siddhas of our school. So I want the whole sangha to teach, anyone who can, to teach. I know that's a whole big trouble because we have to figure out how to do it. But it's not that big of a trouble. In, do something on the computer, I don't know. Yeah, I know. We're here in Hawaii, probably not in person, probably is going to be on the computer. And then if you speak a different language, attract people Attract people to speak that language. Stuff like that. Yeah.

0:53:01
So on the island here. Probably not going to be in person, you might find a couple people, but the area. big opportunity. So I got a lot of a lot of emails that said Western medicine, Eastern medicine, all this stuff. And I said, I didn't even read them. I'm like, I can't process this. You know, it's like, it's just too much information. It's really nice that you guys are trying to look out for me, but I said, don't do that. Maybe send all that to Savitri.

0:54:05
Don't send it to me. I won't read it. And Savitri's job is to look at things and synthesize what is the best deal for me. But you also have to realize that if you found some cool thing online, there's a hundred other people who sent it to me or sent everything else to me. And it's just chaos. I can't do a hundred different programs. And I won't. And I won't even like meditate on it. I'll just see the stuff that you googled and said, oh, this might be good. Don't do that. But if you found something that you really believe in, then send it to Savitri. And then Savitri will be able to look at it, she'll be able to talk to me, and we'll see if it makes any sense, but I don't think it makes any sense. Like 90% of what you're going to give me, I will, I will dismiss it. But there's a couple of things. So I'm, I'm, I'm very open, you know, um, it was with Ken Jin and there was this beautiful Zen teacher, he caught, he caught cancer in his tennis elbow. It was the fourth stage throughout his body.

0:55:46
But then he got through it. And he got through it through kind of like a mental process of awareness. And he told me about it. So I met with him. And he was the real deal, really great, beautiful guy. He was on the Big Island, so I got to meet with him last Wednesday and I'm like, so he's not sitting there talking about an oncologist, he's talking about the mind and I was like, oh I can see that, okay cool. And he was 50 when he caught cancer and then he's 80 So he survived it. So you know, I don't want you guys to freak out, but it's for real. It's a very serious condition that, you know, I'm very ill. I feel perfectly fine, but I'm very ill. While the Western doctors say, bad chances.

0:56:45
I talked to Yuan Miao, she's totally into it. I talked to this wonderful Zen teacher, and he's like, I've experienced it, I went through it, here's my truth, and he shared it with me. So, you know, surviving this cancer is possible. The West has a bad opinion, but the East has a good opinion. But at the same time, we had the best intentions for Jnana-sensei, so I know that this could be the end, I can also survive it. I feel I'm aware of the difficulty and I'm also aware that it's totally totally survivable. And I have a good, I have a very good opinion of mine and I would like you guys to do that as well. Not to sit there and go, oh my god, because I'm going to go away at the end of the month and you know I might not be back but I might be back and then if I come back I'm gonna be a big asshole and give you guys a hard time like crazy so you know you guys you guys gotta See? Yeah, no, but yeah, I've seen more and more people who have, ever since I got this, people have gotten healed from this. And I've already started medical medium, Embers of Yuan Miao and we're doing Medicine Buddha. So you know these things I have really believed in. I've seen you know spiritual healing work so I'm not negative about it I'm actually positive about it but I'm also realist because you know look at you know Jnana Sensei he believed in it completely and so did I along with him. In his heart, me and him were like, yeah, we're going to do this. Thank God. So that's going to happen for any of us or all of us eventually. So one thing that I would like to say, A lot of you, I got a lot of emails, in my last teaching I said, get straight with your teacher and I got a whole bunch of emails that I didn't read.

0:59:47
It's too many emails, I'm not going to read them, but I get you in the second attention and I also love you and support you. is for any of you who have a positive experience of gratitude, I'd like to end on gratitude. A lot of people are saying, oh, I fucked up and I'm sorry. I'm like, oh, I don't need to hear that at all. Come on, I already absolutely forgive all of my students. Absolutely. So you don't need to say sorry to me because I already get that. But I think what I'd like to do is I'd like for all of you to write, if you want to, you don't have to. But if you want to do something, don't try to solve something with me, because I already solved it. I hope you solve it too. But the way that I want you to solve it is write a little thank you note to me.

1:01:09
No more than 500 characters on the screen. You know, like a small, like, get down to it. I don't want to get like a big encyclopedia, but get down to like the essence of what you want to share and say, hey, thank you. I think that's something I will read and I will appreciate. All right, thank you. Now, I'd like to sit with you guys for three songs. First song on the navel, second song on the heart, third song on the third eye. Thank you all so much. All right, let's meditate like strong.

1:05:48
So, the last time I saw Rama, we were leaving a theater where he was giving a satsang, and it was really intense. And then security brought him out to his car, out of the theater, and then he looked at us and he said, he said, security's gonna do good. He said, and some of you are gonna do great. It's the last words I heard from him. And I'm sitting there, me and Ugly Paul, and we're all, what are you talking about? And the others are good too. They're good. And enlightenment is great. So that was a beautiful meditation. I wanted to go over um my uh my last will and testament but I don't know if I have to I think we can have you know a couple other people who are competent because I've already fought through it a few years And I want to open it up to showdowns and see what feedback you guys have.

1:17:10
Because I think it's going to be fine, but anything that you guys say, oh wait, we should focus on this or focus on that, I'm open to hear it. But for this time, this is good. So, thank you all so much. Very beautiful sit with you. And also, whatever I said.

