0:00:00
Okay. All right, wonderful.

0:00:41
OK, so we're going to be talking about the Kalachakra Mandala Yoga and creating a mandala. You know how the... You know, there's a perfect balance in nature. There always is, right? There's a perfect balance in nature. Nature is balanced. And a mandala is balanced. Nature works perfectly. Just leave it alone, don't mess it up, and it goes pretty well. Right? And the mandala works perfectly. So when you find and construct the right mandala, it works perfectly. It's got everything in balance and it does its dharmic function in a perfect, perfect way. So, you, as a mandala yogi, are not only creating a mandala, but you are also one of the attributes of the mandala and you are in the perfect place the perfect place for that Dharma you're in a place where you balance things out so if you weren't there it'd be like a table missing a leg or something like that it could usually fall over. You know, if you weren't there participating technically in your dharma, then the mandala would not function. There would not be a mandala. A mandala would fall apart if it has a balance. So, what we're going to first focus on is your place in the Mandala. So the great Kalachakra Mandala. Kalachakra is this esoteric doctrine of enlightenment. It's 10,000 universes of enlightenment. It's a very, very, very, very, very, very giant piece of enlightened construction. Constructed ages ago, a little bit ago, by some great, great, great, great Buddha. And drawing from the Kapha Chakra, we can create the mandalas are, you know, whichever dimensions and powers we put together. Now, the new mandala that we're gonna be creating is this vast, it has thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of dimensions, tens of thousands of dimensions. So it's not possible to see it in the mind, in the first attention of the mind. But it is possible to know it in the second intention. With that intent to open the second intention, you're going to have that whole mandala comprehended in the second tense. It's as if you merge with the mandala. It's as if you go to the center of the mandala. And then from there you get more sense of the mandala. And then from there, we're going to have an intent to know your dharma in this mandala. And, like the seven said, every single shodhan has a very, very, very, very powerful part to play in the dharma of this mandala. And you want to bring yourself to that. And then you want to see what's there. You want to have the intent. This is all in the second intention. But you want to have that intent. You will get information. You might see things, you become aware. And then it starts to play out in the fold in the first attention. So we're going to just sit for a few minutes, and you can have a light focus on the third

0:06:49
eye.

0:06:50
And we're going to bring, I'm going to reveal the mandala. And then we're going to start to focus. Start to get in there. And the mandala that I'm revealing is what we're going to create. It's kind of like, I'm showing you the code, right? I'm like, hey, look at the code. And then when we create it, it's like pushing the compile button. And then it takes that and it makes it. But the code for a mandala looks like a mandala. And even if you're drawing a mandala to represent something in the second dimension, it looks like a mandala. All right, so we're going to have a soft focus on the third eye and bring your intent to opening to the mandala. And feel where your place is in this dharma, in this great work. Okay, let's begin.

0:07:45
Okay. Okay. All right, very good. Very good. Now with this understanding, in the second intention, of your place in the mandala that we create, this

0:10:31
is going to be your first mandala that you're actually going to create. This is going to be a tool of Dharma that is going to help you in your place, in your dharma. So I'm going to describe it to you in a way of first attention. And everybody's in a different place with thousands of dimensions, and I'm like this. But I'm going to describe it in a single form, and I want you to feel it, open your second attention, see it, because now we're looking at a very specific function that only has function that only has like 10,000 dimensions

0:11:41
and

0:11:43
and This is something that will exist when you create it down It'll exist when you it'll exist and help you create a great mandala and it will exist It exists it will exist and fit into like you The great mandala and be a tool that assists you in your dharma. Eyes closed, have a focus on, a soft focus on the third eye. And you're going to see at the center a circle.

0:12:20
You.

0:12:22
There's a circle.

0:12:24
And there's you. You're in the middle. You're sitting in a meditative position and there's is making it mudra. So take a moment to feel that and see yourself, see what you're holding, see what a mudra is. And above you, there's a Buddha.

0:13:09
This Buddha is orange in color. Maybe orange is yellow, white orange, clay, I don't know. So it's fine, just see that Buddha above you. To your left, there's a blue Buddha. Like the Medicine Buddha color, but not the Medicine Buddha, just a blue indigo colored Buddha. And below you, there is a white Buddha.

0:14:50
So, see a white Buddha below you.

0:14:54
And to your right, there is a green Buddha. See the green Buddha to your right.

0:15:23
Now hold the vision of you in the center of a circle, the orange Buddha above you, the blue Buddha to your left, the white to the bottom, the green to the right. Hold that vision in your mind all at once. See that on top.

0:16:38
Don't try to hold it in just the physical mind. You might start iterating through things.

0:16:48
Hold it in your second attention. Now on the outside of the circle, there's another circle, a bigger circle. And in between the two circles, starting from next to it, Ham, to the right, Ham, then going down to the right again, Om. And Aham, Om, Aham, Om, Aham, Om goes all the way around. So holding your mind, you in the center, the four Buddhas, and the second circle with Aham Ong symbols going all around that circle. This is the mandala. So I want you to open your second attention and see that mandala.

0:18:17
Okay. Now we're going to create it. And to create it, you have the intention to create it.

0:19:02
That's first. And then, when you have the intention to create it, you're going to focus on the second chakra, the navel chakra, the heart chakra, the throat chakra, the third eye, and the crown chakra. You don't have to focus on the root chakra. And we're going to, let's do that one at a time, second chakra, navel, heart, throat, third eye, crown. Activating the chakras and we have the intent to create this mandala. And when you're looking at it in your second attention, you're going to charge it with the most enlightened energy. So you're going to see it from you sitting in the center, and the different colored Buddhas, and the circles in the letters. You're going to see it all turn into, like each thing is shining gold white. It is just shining enlightenment. This activates all the dimensions that these things connect to. So see it as shining like gold. And have that intent, and have the intent of all the chakras, except for the root. OK? We're going to do this. Just have that intent, and we will create this mandala. OK, let's begin. Okay.

0:20:57
Okay.

0:20:58
Okay.

0:20:59
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. The mandala is created. Now imagine that the mandala is like a little circle over your head, just above your crown chakra. And now the mandala moves down into the crown. Feel that.

0:22:08
And the mandala moves down into the heart. And then we'll bend all those down into the root chakra. And this is where it's anchored to your Kundalini.

0:24:33
All right, very good.

0:24:36
Now, we created, we envisioned, we saw the code. We coded the mandala, we created the mandala, and we brought the mandala down to activate all chakras and to be hooked to your root chakra, to the Kundalini source. the mandala. So, now what we're going to do is, we've created this tool, Dharma, that has thousands of dimensions of enlightenment. Now we're going to activate it. We're going to use it. So, I want you to get a sense of the Dharma that you saw earlier. I want you to get a sense of your place, your Dharma. And, we're going to use the mandala to support that dharma. Even if it's a feeling or a second intention awareness, and you don't know what it is, even in the first intention, trust your second intention and say, I have the intent to activate this mandala to aid in that dharma.

0:26:18
So with your right hand, I want you to touch or point your finger to your thumb.

0:26:25
This is a mudra. And I want you to envision again in front of you the mandala. This time when we envision it, it's not a vision, it's a construction in the second connection. And I want you to feel as though with your fingers, pointer finger and thumb, that you can move it, that you can shift it. You can spin it.

0:27:08
You can turn it.

0:27:11
Go ahead and feel as if you're turning it. You can make a motion with your hand. You can just feel it. See how you're able to turn it. This is what they call, when Buddha turned the wheel of the Dharma, bringing the teachings of Buddhism in enlightenment. It is shifting that dharmic tool and all of its powers to the dharma of your position in the Kriya Mandala. Now with the left hand, I want you to make the mudra that you saw yourself, that you see yourself in, in the center of the mandala. That might be the same mudra as the right hand, it might be a different one. But I want you to make that second mudra.

0:28:12
And then with both mudras,

0:28:15
I want you to work with the mandala. Going in, coming out. Going around, feeling certain dimensions of one Buddha or another. Aham om. Very, very powerful. I want you to feel it.

0:28:37
So if you're sitting by yourself, you can move around.

0:28:39
You can see how it feels to move your hands. If you're sitting right next to someone, watch out. But I want you to use these mudras to affect the mandala.

0:28:59
Okay. Okay. Very good. Very, very good. Alright, so you've created your first mandala, and you also know how to operate it with your mind.

0:30:26
You can operate it by activating the Kundalini. You can operate it with mudras. There are many dimensions of how you can operate it, but it's spiritual.

0:30:37
Yeah, cool.

0:30:38
So this is what I would call a simple mandala. It's going to be one of tens of thousands of parts of the great mandala. So this is like a nice little happy mandala. Yeah. I made a mandala

0:30:58
a couple days ago.

0:30:59
That was so amazing that far exceeded even the Mangalas of the seven because I'm really good at this the seven are really good too, but I have a a dharma that's unfolding for me that brings me higher. And yeah, the Dharma that I'm experiencing is really, really high and beautiful. And it has to do with my illness, and it has to do with transformation, and ultimately the Dharma. And you know, the 7th day, you know, as you go into the spiritual transformation, you're also going to be healed. And I'm definitely going into the spiritual transformation. Every day feels like an atom bomb explodes of enlightenment, and I feel like I'm born

0:32:20
again.

0:32:21
I don't know.

0:32:22
Born again Christian. No. I feel like I'm a brand new being in the universe. But it happens every day. So there's such a strong momentum of enlightenment that's happening for me. And I got just leveling up and stuff like that. Even the Mangala Yoga, which is so complex, I got good at it, but now it's a whole new level. So it's just amazing. And I just realized, you know, just for me, I just have to let go. I have to let go of the old enlightened teacher, the old enlightened master, the old enlightened life. And the more I let go, the more I let go, the more this new vision of energy is unfolding. And it's powerful, and it's beautiful, and it's amazing, and wonderful. And it's very strong. So I forget, you know, I've just been letting go of everything. I let go of everything. I let go of my life. I actually let go of physical things, too. I let go of my money. I gave it all to the church and closed down my personal bank account. Today, I was like, I had one thing, one last thing. I thought I had actually wired all the money, but the bank put a stop on it. They said, hey, you surely wanted to wire all your money, and they didn't know that. I was like, I don't still have money. But I got rid of my health insurance last month. And I was just like, I just have to get rid of everything. Because again, I already gave up the idea of living in AL and hanging out with students a lot and I was like, once I started letting go of all these things, then faster and faster, this powerful light has been transforming. And it's been so beautiful. And it's amazing. Yeah, so, somehow, I'm an existing... well, I'm going to be here. I'm here with Ra right now, so he takes me to dinner or whatever. And yeah, it's good. It's really beautiful. I got a social worker. You know, I'm in an experimental drug trial, and so when my doctor came over to me and said, hey, you know, something's flagged on the system that you don't have insurance. And I thought, yeah, I can't pay insurance. And he's like, can't get it from friends and family, I'm all, nope, can't do it. And then he's like, I'll, and then, yeah, he was really nice, he said, well, we're not gonna just, you know, stop your treatment just because you don't have money. So then I got to continue, which was really nice. And then, yeah, yesterday, they sent a social worker. So they're going to give me something called Medi-Cal or something like that. So they're going to give me some insurance for poor people. And then what else? They're going to give me food stamps so I won't go hungry. So ghetto. Like the poverty group. Anyway, let's try to do an adventure. First, it seemed a little trippy. But then I was like, eh, it just happens. All right, so things are transforming. And when I do this, it opens up so much power for the whole sangha. Just letting go. Letting go. So yeah, Ron and Chien were visiting me. And I gave Chien the Kala Chakra empowerment. And because their yoga is super strong. I'm really loving their yoga. And it's really beautiful. So I gave her the Kalachakra empowerment. And Ra was there, and he assisted. Because any time, even if there's one teacher sitting there talking, any chodron in the room should be assisting in the second attention. And then that enriches the experience for everybody. So while I was giving the Kalachakra, like the actual Kalachakra empowerment, sitting there doing it, Ra was doing it too. And then Ra went way high. He went up into the Sambhogakaya and had that realization. And that was just totally amazing. That was beautiful. I remember it was very interesting because I recognized that that was happening while we were sitting in meditation. And it was really, really a nice, positive thing. But at that time, I stopped breathing.

0:38:25
I'm beeping.

0:38:26
Hold on.

0:38:28
Oh, that's what's beating.

0:38:30
Hold on.

0:38:31
There's a way to fix everything in the universe.

0:38:35
Everything can be fixed. By pushing buttons. Yeah, so, um, so, when he went into this songbook of Kaya, then I, I just stopped reading. Um, and I went into that thing, you know, the breathless state. And I had never went into the breathless state before. I never remember doing that. I'll sit there, and I'll just be nirvana and stuff, whatever you think. Anyway, so I went to the breathless state. And in the breathless state, you just don't need to breathe. You don't have any interest in breathing. You don't want to breathe. I actually forced myself to breathe a couple times. And it was like, it's a weird force in me. And I was just sitting there, not breathing. And it was very interesting. You feel totally fine. You don't feel like you are missing out on anything. And that was cool. So that was a neat thing. And then afterwards, when Rob and I were talking about it, Rob said that when he went into the Sun logo, also he had no breath. So that was an interesting thing. I don't do that, so maybe that's a raw thing. So this is a really powerful, powerful time. Big, big, powerful changes are happening. And as all of this is coming together, as you're learning to do the mandalas, as there's going to be more students who are going to get the Shodan, you know, come up to the Shodan level, the Kalachakra empowerment, these are times where the Shodans can really, really strong kind for the Shodan transformations. So then the next day, Rob, which was, I guess, yesterday, I created within a mandala for their yoga. And it was an exceptionally powerful mandala for their yoga. And I was showing them how to make the mandalas. And it was very powerful. I'm going to do that with all yogas. All yogas are going to have a special mandala. And it's very beautiful. But Ram was still reeling from the sangho, the kaya, like at an elevated state. I was able to give him a chip upgrade to see better, to be more clear. And he was able, after the mandala creation, to describe it. And he described the mandala very articulately. Like, I can't say, I don't know how to describe the mandala. It's like, eh, there's a whole bunch of stuff. There's a whole bunch of infinity jumping around. It's very difficult to describe. You can describe things. There's circles. There's this power. There's that power. This goes on for infinity. Things like that. You can say things. But he actually described it pretty darn well. So what I'm going to do now is I'm going to sign off. Then I'm going to play Roz's recap of his experience in doing the mandala. All right.

0:42:35
Adios.

0:42:36
And then the other one is to talk about the diamond drum. That we're working, we're just talking.

0:42:43
And then we created the mandala for Ramana Sri Gaurava.

0:42:54
We created the mandala for Prabhupada Siva.

0:42:57
And those two were the constructions. Well, those two were the constructions. And those two are amazing. You know, I thought we were going to make a nice little central tool here for the studio with. what we see of us, but it went so high. When the senate told me that I was going to be an ammunition of this group, I was like, what the heck? They called me Dasha Khara, and 10 different photos, based on the one here. I was like, oh, okay. And then they said, we'll show you the 9th place. And they showed me, and it was so fucking big. There was an unknown person in my evolvingly big. It was like very big, big, big, big Dharma.

0:43:51
So when I sat down with these guys, and I was looking at this,

0:43:54
I was like, this is the Dishie's band. These don't go off. These go off when we feel like it. And then, once I saw that, I was like, wow, how am I going to get to that level of that big dish of these amazing dishes of other worlds and stuff. And I had no idea. I knew I had to read this manga.

0:44:31
I knew I had to go.

0:44:32
And somehow I teach the world.

0:44:34
I knew everything.

0:44:36
And then in this, I saw that it was exactly the Vishuddhidharma. And so I was like, oh, OK, cool. So I was able to bring the manga up to that level. about level two yoga, which is so phenomenal. Yeah, and you guys did a perfect job by the way.

0:44:59
Perfect job.

0:44:59
It was amazing, right?

0:45:00
Okay, so let's see.

0:45:13
First section. I'm not going to take off the side. First section. May I try to put into words what just happened? Yes, please.

0:45:21
You started from how to first draw energy into the right hand and the left hand, the fullness and the emptiness, and create vortexes out of that. So strings are cubes of words.

0:45:59
And then you make complete words where

0:46:04
they have no beginning nor end. And you replicate it several times to make them into circles. And those circles, you replicate it again and again. It's like the fractalness of this is mind-blowing. And with those strings, you tie together a five-cornered geometrical tree, which is half of a box. And that completely correlates with the time of the dance. And the top corner of it plays the larger role.

0:47:06
That's right. And isn't that amazing how that dimension just came in?

0:47:11
That other dimension.

0:47:12
That is a powerful dimension. It goes like, he's talking about infinity put together, right? And then all of a sudden, it goes that way.

0:47:20
Yes, yeah, and that's half of that shape. And when you created it, it just looked like one box. And you created two boxes, tying them together, because the law of balance in creation is everything has to be balanced.

0:47:39
Perfect.

0:47:40
Yes.

0:47:41
And so there was the box of fullness balanced with the box of emptiness, tied together in

0:47:53
that quantum nexus.

0:47:55
Yeah. Indescribable.

0:47:57
It's the Buddha. It's all the dimensions, it's everything there. And those boxes, you created a buckyball out of it, basically. The strongest shape possible, which is so flexible, yet so rigid. It is so strong that it cannot be broken, but it can be expanded very easily and it can be fractalized in any way. And that bucky ball of all these boxes tied together with those ropes made out of those strings, made out of those circles, made out of those vertexes, made out of those energies, created that beautiful structure in which I first saw this as a very good structure. Then I saw that it's so much more than that. I'll explain. So hard to put it into words together. And I could only understand this because of the tip of the clay you gave me earlier to comprehend,

0:49:22
to be able to see that.

0:49:23
Yes, thank you. And all of this happens so perfectly. So within that Bhakti ball, which which is our yoga with the mission of uplifting the consciousnesses, universes, ultimately. But in this first level what happens is those connection nodes which There is a thing that travels constantly and it has a kind of a fading light as it travels, like one of those old screen savers. And this is in one dimension and this I saw as the process of the yoga in some way. The path that we create for our clients essentially and at the same time in the single space in I mentioned, there is all these students who come in. They travel to these different spots, which are teachings of dharma expressed in different ways. And later, you showed me how to put together those teachings. As you say, and I did some in there. And every single time, we had one and a half hours in the beginning. You showed me that entire thing. Like, what is that?

0:51:26
Oh, my god.

0:51:27
Was I wrong again and again? Was it wrong again and again and again? Because it just kept going and going and going. There are also words that you told me. One of the words is toroidal sensitivity. So there is another layer which is around this buckyball which is our yoga and it has holes. They are actually toroids. And the entire thing is made out of toroids. So there are poles and toroids. And these are various ways of bringing, shooting people into the Sangha, into the yoga. Funnels, essentially. And sometimes, depending on their toroidal sensitivity, is there a velocity of each student. So sometimes the toroidal sensitivity is so strong that they really get what they're offering. And they take that momentum that the toroid create and just go right into the center and start becoming one of these students who explore all the regions. But sometimes they go into the store and go out, and then a little bit later, sometimes days, sometimes life,

0:52:54
they come back, and their toroidal sensitivity opens. But even touching the mandala, it changes their life, really.

0:53:06
So it changes their kind of path that they've orbited already on, until eventually that orbit points towards going into the structure. Yeah, and this is like the base model. And then I saw that once a client, a spiritual leader, enters as a student into this, then we replicate the same structure for them. And this is a self-replicating structure that what we do for ourselves, we teach others. And yeah, so this buckyball that is ours has orbiting buckyballs which are our clients. the more the students come in, the more light there is. There are also light particles. And this entire thing starts becoming brighter and brighter.

0:54:07
And the Torah gets stronger because this has more and more momentum.

0:54:13
And more and more people come in, more and more enlightenment.

0:54:17
Remember, the beginning is better.

0:54:19
And at that point, that was all, again. And then my mind was trying to really understand what this was, comprehend. And you were with me every step of the way, saying things like, Comprehension is my own. Different things which made me completely stop my thought, to be completely still, and understand, comprehend all of this without understanding. And I got it. And then after you showed me these things, then I told you two structures, two dimensions within this space, then you told me there was a third dimension. That is one more point where I was like, I can't comprehend this. And then you were like that drumming teacher in Whiplash who was like, come on, you can do it.

0:55:40
Yeah, yeah.

0:55:42
So, and then, at that point, you kind of show me your hands. You can do that. So you started with showing me the structure, this mandala and then you are going through the mandala very fast as a way of lighting it up to show us but later I understood the deeper meaning. You were like through the mandala, which is full of these shapes, and circles which connect all of these shapes together, and these tangi, all together to infinity. And as you showed me that you are going through each and every one, it became faster and faster and faster and faster until I realized that there is only you.

0:57:22
You are essential nature.

0:57:24
Which is one, but it is going so fast that speed makes no sense anymore. Time doesn't make sense anymore. Space doesn't make sense anymore. Dimensions don't make sense anymore. And when you ask us to look at that shiny rock, You showed us essentially that this is how every atom, subatom, and sub-particles of that, sub-strings of that, is all made out of your essential nature. And then you said, there's no more spiritual.

0:58:26
There is no stretch. In that there is completeness.

0:58:38
There is nothing less.

0:58:41
always anything you want.

0:58:43
I can't even describe it. That was great!

0:58:46
I was hoping to remember it, but

0:58:48
as this went on, you kind of helped me keep that structure in my mind, and you kind of showed it to me,

0:58:56
and then again sometimes said,

0:58:57
that structure in my mind, and you kind of showed it to me in the game sometimes.

0:59:02
Let me recap. Let me summarize again.

0:59:04
Yeah. Do that.

0:59:06
Because... I've never... And there are so many more things at these levels. It would take an infinity to put into words, because the things we're doing, it can't really be put into words. And you also showed me, when you showed this, this was first in micro-energy, but this is like very carefully, surgically, putting those energies together in various ways, various ratios, various shapes, in various dimensions, in various factors, to create, create dream realities, create worlds, create lofas, and something that can be like creating a dream. And you asked me to do that, and it was like a dance when I sang on the tree,

1:00:27
Mrs. and the tree was like, yeah, yeah, of course.

1:00:29
And I did that, and I created a cloud with, we zoomed into a rain particle and saw its structure and dimensions, and replicated it, put it together, in that specific kind of structure. And then we created everything else essential for it, like lightning, wind, dark clouds started forming as this happened. And just once you create it, it's so easy to replicate it as many times as you want. You only need to create the most essential part. And then it opened that up, which causes a certain balance. And that, and also, the balance is also the consideration of whether to use that energy or not. And then, then you realize you made this, made me do this out of play. And it actually didn't happen. But I can use that energy and absorb it, change it into another potential energy form, to use later. And then during the end of the meditation, sometimes, where there was something, some kind of a symbol for manifestation, like three months, a moment or something,

1:02:02
like something to be making

1:02:04
and I felt two raindrops falling on me

1:02:08
Yeah, I felt that too

1:02:10
Yeah So it was like, it actually happened between all the shows while at the same time it was for a play

1:02:18
Yeah

1:02:20
And like this whole time you know, you were working with everybody to teach them the same thing for the different peoples. And when she spoke of her experience, I could relate by going into the Vatsha Mandala. As she spoke of it, I saw it. I saw it helping to my attention to see it, really. It felt like our attention is divine, really. And the entire Wat Chakramandala, the Vajra Buddha, appeared in front of me in these fractal dimensions of going infinitely inside. and as she spoke of her experience, I felt that happening. As me, I have my oneness with the Vajramandala, Vajrabuddha, expressing that. Oh, there are no words to say this, but there are an infinite amount of words that can be said about this. And it continues. Every time you speak, it continues. You continue opening up these dimensions as you speak, as you don't speak. You take it. And that is what I sensed when I first came to the school. in your words, but in a very small level, like really basic. Now I see it so clearly.

1:04:07
And in other words,

1:04:09
how do you feel about it? I'm very close to seeing it. It's a good one.

1:04:23
It doesn't make sense. Yeah. That was so important. Yeah.

1:04:29
I think you see that, you know, like I'm going through this whole healing process. Letting go of the enlightened person who I was, the enlightened teacher, the enlightened wife, and then I'm like, what is there after that? And I think the seeing, not seeing, but knowing that, yeah, like you have to, as you were saying, like every atom, I find, it's a real knowing. And then, yeah, and then I'm like, oh, I'm glad. And then I looked at my students. And I'm like, you can probably do that, but not me. And then I was like, are you thinking about like, man, a man in here, like a bad person, evil, demon or something.

1:05:52
And I'm like, you know, this should be the two of them.

1:05:56
And I think they just don't know it.

1:05:58
They just don't see it.

1:05:59
Oh yeah, we can talk one more time.

1:06:06
That was the end of the recording. That was the end of the recording.

1:06:08
Thank you.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
