0:00:00
Now you can hear me. Yeah? No? Yes? No?

0:00:11
Yes, we can hear you. Okay, thank you. Okay, I'm going to give you guys the music that we're going to do and you guys can set it up while I'm talking. Okay, so we're going to do Mystery School, the song Telepathy. Then we're going to do Harvest Time. Maybe that's on Atlantis Rising, I don't know. And then we're going to do Crystal Dome. That also might be in Atlantis Rising. But you guys can find it. All right. So today we're going to be talking about the mandala. And it's a very advanced yoga. And so, you know, when you approach this, you have to realize that this is not an easy thing to do. And if you have kind of a half-assed intention or something like that, then it's not going to work out very, very well, meaning you just won't learn it very well. Because it's a very advanced yoga. It's a yoga completely of the second attention, but it is a very precise and real thing in second attention. So some people are learning really well. They're learning amazing things and they're having a great time. They're experiencing like, you guys remember when I told you the first time that I sat with the seven, I was like, whoa, my goodness. It was something I had never experienced before and it was amazing and wonderful and incredible. So a lot of people are saying that they're experiencing these kinds of things, but then there's a lot of people who aren't. And I started looking into that and I'm like, hmm, there's some people who I would think should be able to get this but really aren't. Getting very little out of it. And it's really because of intention. So, you have to ask yourself, what's your intent for learning this? Because if you don't have the proper intention, you're just going to learn like 1% of what I'm teaching. Which is okay, it's a good introduction, but it's just a very small part. So, the intent that we're working on here matters. The Seven always used to say, there's no way your students are going to be able to do this. They said that for a long time until something came up. They said, now that this has become clear that there's this dharma, now there's a special opportunity for your students to be able to do their part to come up, to step up, to be able to create the mandala. So if it wasn't for, you know, the circumstances that make this opportunity available, it would be a long, long, long, long time before you would be able to get to this level of yoga. It took me, you know, 20 years of training to be able to be ready to start doing this yoga. So it does take a long, long time, unless you get lucky and have an opportunity and you've got everything like going in your favor. So you have to have a recognition of what's going on. And then you have to set your intent. And so the recognition is that, you know, all these reasons why our school is changing. We need to be a bright, tight, clean school. We need to be transparent. We need to be harmless. So that means that we need to change some of the old funky ways we did things. And it has to be like a stronger, brighter, cleaner school. So we're working on that in the first intention, but even the diamond mandala, which is super awesome, that has to go. We have to create a new mandala that is going to be, you know, really, really, really strong. Because there's going to be, you know, heavier, you know, Kali Yuga, karmas and stuff like that, that come up in the world going forward. We have to be strong enough in the spiritual structure of the school that we have some protection. Yeah, that's why I call the new mandala the Fortress of Light. Our new sangha is the Fortress of Light, both spiritually and also in our tonal where something that keeps out the darkness and trouble and then we're bright and we're a place where very, very positive things can happen. And then also there's the Mahatma and other seekers of enlightenment of course. There will be other seekers of the Mahatma. So you got to make sure that you got the right intention. You know, this is like, I have the opportunity to create the spiritual structure for Mahatma and for future Dharma seekers. And that's what I'm doing here. That's why I'm here. If you don't know what's going on, you don't know what time it is, and you don't know why you're here, you won't win the powers that create it. It's kind of like if there's two students of a great sword master, samurais. And one of the samurai, yeah, he's young, athletic, he's got lots of interests, he's all good, he's really good at his sword and it's all wonderful, he does it because he likes it and it's fun and cool. And then the other samurai who's training under the master knows that a war is coming and has the intent to train, to be able to like fight in that war and not die, learns much, much, much, much, much, much more. The other guy's cool, he's gonna learn some stuff, and then get killed in the war. Just kidding. No, it just doesn't learn as much. He doesn't have the right intention. So, you know, but if you do miss this opportunity because you don't know what's going on and you're confused and your intentions are all over the place, you'll still have the opportunity to learn. So, it'll just be, you know, like a little slower. You take advantage of the time where it was most advantageous, but you'll still have an opportunity. It's kind of like that with the Sangha org. So, you know, the Sangha org has been around for a while. And, you know, like some people just realized recently, they're like, Oh, man, I kind of missed an opportunity to jump into the board or the and help and so they go oh wow yeah now I'm starting to see that it is a powerful thing and and it was kind of a missed opportunity so as I said you know especially with the diamond mandala there's very very very very powerful teachings in the sangha and if you're part of the org there's very, very, very, very powerful teachings. When you're the administrator of the org, then lots of power comes through you. If you're doing, and I'm talking about all leadership roles in the org, and that includes like dojo leads, that includes, you know, anybody who's a yoga leader. When you're working at that level where you're doing a job for the Sangha, there's tremendous teachings in that. And the Sangha org also has a lot of powerful teachings in it. So some of you guys have been seeing that recently with the board members, because as this transformation to a fortress of light, to a new mandala, there's very, very powerful shifts that are happening. To me, it's just amazing. And the Thanga board, I'm working closely with them, they're spending like 10 to 12 hours per day doing all this work. This is the first attention work that needs to get done for us to have the proper tonal in the new org. And it's a lot of work, but they do it because it's, I mean, they do it as a selfless giving, but they do it because it's super powerful, it's super bright. It's like, I'm going to put 10 hours in today because this is bright and it needs to get done now. So, this is a true selfless giving. I mean, they're not getting paid for those 10 hours, right? They're putting in a lot of time. And, of course, no one in the Sangha org gets paid. It's always a selfless giving. The fundamental structure of our Sangha, like Rama's school, that all org members, all teachers, everything that we do as leaders in the Sangha is a selfless giving. Because if someone's in the Sangha and they go, oh I want money, I want to promote my self-interest, or I want to have people look up to me or things like that. If that's in your in your intent to do something for the org, then Sanga leadership is not for you. So this is something that, you know, it is a very strong selfless giving. And the org members right now have been working really hard, a lot of selfless giving, but that's that's, you know, but they also love it because it's powerful and they see how they, you know, transform when they're doing that. Some people reached out to me and said they want to be on the board now, now that they see things happening, now that they see the power in it. And I would say, you don't need to be on the board now, but you can be in the future. There are big changes happening right now, and maybe you could have helped. But when we first started the org, or even with the Diamond Mandala, there were a lot of vacancies. the board right now, they actually were already, they took on the board as a second role in the org because there was nobody stepping up to do it. So you didn't step up when it was time and now they're handling it. So you don't need to be on the board, but you can, you know, join the org, take a role, show that you're committed, and then in the future, if you really want to be on the board, it's possible. And so some of you are also complaining about the board to me and you know, first of all, have some perspective. We're doing a lot of big changes. A lot of things are shifting very quickly. I tell the board new things every day and I say, I keep telling them. So they're like shifting and changing and, you know, with all these things, there could be some difficulty. However, you know, that's not a positive thing. If you really think things are going in the wrong direction or something, it's not that wrong. I'm involved well. And I have a very big perspective on what's going on. And things are revealing themselves every day. And so I'm definitely a part of directing the Dharma. But I think that, you know, try to be positive and constructive. That would be the thing to do. If you have ideas, wonderful, you know, share your ideas. And if you want to be on the board in the future, then yeah, definitely, you know, start helping out, like, show us that you're that you want to want to be part of it. And realize that when you are in a role in the sangha as leadership, that's where you really start to gain a lot of the Siddha powers of the Kalachakra. So, it's like you've got to step forward and do something, and then you start to see that it happens. And that happens, you know, if you're doing a role in the org, you start to gain the Siddha powers. The term is the teachings of the Diamond Mandala and the Kalachakra are in service to the Sangha in the most powerful transformative ones, and you really want to develop those Siddha powers, then be part of the org. Look at the abbots or the dojo leads. So it's like Sambhava says, okay, I'll be the abbot of Bodhi Mandala and he gained so many Siddha powers, right? Or look at Palden Lamo and Imatep. Amazing job running the Bay Area Sangha. And then when they teach, they teach so perfectly. They gain so many teaching Siddha powers. amazing transformation from the level of enlightenment that came through them. So now that they're leading and teaching the Bay Area, tremendous power and light comes through them. So like, yeah, you know, like teach, lead yoga, mentor somebody, you know, things like that. These are the ways that a lot of the Siddha powers are activated. So in order to move forward with creating the mandala and learning the mandala you have to, you know, you have to get straight on your intention, right? It's like, look at your intent. What is your intent here? Are you just kind of just, oh, this is an interesting thing. Let me try to learn it. No, yeah. I mean, like if you don't know what's going on and you're not, and your intent isn't there, then it's not gonna, you're not gonna really take advantage of the opportunity to learn this. However, if you get your intent straight, then it's good. And I'd like you to consider that now.

0:18:29
Consider your intent.

0:18:30
You have to be positive about the Sangha. So you have to be positive about the Sangha board. You have to be positive about the Sangha org, the Sangha leadership. You gotta be positive about your yoga, you got to be positive about everybody in the Sangha. If you have a bad attitude about the Sangha and the things of the Sangha, then I would say fix your bad attitude, do some bodhicitta, and be positive. Because to create the mandala you have to come from a place of positivity. And I think you're all capable of doing that. And the other thing that you have to do in your intention is really like when you're going to create this mandala, you have to kind of have this like, what do you call it? Responsibility, right? So I said, you know, you're going to make this thing and it's going to be your baby. So once you make the baby, then you gotta like raise it. And that takes a lot of energy. So you have to realize, that's why I said, you know, when you're going to create this spiritual structure for the Sangha, you have to do it as if you're the guru of the Sangha. You can't sit there and go, oh, I'll just focus on it a little bit. No, you have to like, you know, say, all right, if I'm going to create this, you know, I'm I am in for the long haul to help this. So those are the two things. If you can be positive. this thing that I'm creating, I'm going to, you know, really, really care for, then that's all you need to do in order to have the right intent. And to realize that, you know, all of these changes that we're making are so that in the future, there'll be an opportunity of enlightenment for people out there. That's why we have to make these changes in the first detention, and that's why we have to learn. That's why you have to learn to create the mandala. And that's why there's an opportunity, because you have to learn to make the mandala. The seven cannot make this mandala. I cannot make this mandala. It is up to the students, the advanced students, the shodans of the school. It's a special mandala. And it's kind of like that centimeter of chance to make it. But it also, when you have that intent, when you know what's going on, and you have that intent, you're positive and taking responsibility, then that will make you a Kalachakra Mandala Yogi. All right. So I want you to know what you're here for. So the Seven told me just yesterday that they are, that after the creation of the Mandala and after the Sangha Org is running with the new structures, that they are going to meet with the yogis who created the mandala, and then they're going to teach you how to use the mandala more effectively. And this means like really, really, really strong ways of using the light and the dimensions and the siddhas. So they said that they'll do a session with you and they will teach you magical, wonderful things about the Mandala. So this is also an amazing opportunity because they always used to say, I'm never going to see your students. And I guess they were right. But yeah, so they, it's really out there, man. Like, they're like, yeah, we're going to come and teach you guys. And they're really, really, really, really, really amazing, you know, teachers of this yoga. They taught me. And it's amazing yoga. So, and then a side note for Kali, they asked for an email address for contacting the board, they just want a single address. And then you guys can communicate as a board to a seven. This opportunity to create this mandala is because your intent is in the future there will be people looking for enlightenment and if we create this mandala then it will be available. In the future if Ashera was just around it wouldn't be available to new people hardly at all. Because I always knew I would have to change the diamond mandala, but this one that the Seven have shown is durable. Yeah, this one will serve its purpose and be very, very, very powerful and positive for people going forward.

0:24:50
All right, so with that,

0:24:52
we're going to have the mandala session.

0:24:57
Want you to set your intent,

0:24:59
know what's going on, know why you're here. And then we're gonna go into the mandala. We're gonna sit for three songs. You can have a light focus on the third eye. And then I will bring you into it.

0:25:25
Okay, let's begin. So Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, so So so Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, So you you you. so the the You know I love you So so So So so you So the the the the So, so So so So, So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So So So So So You're the one I need You're the one I need You're the one I need You're the one I need You're the one I need You're the one I need So you All right, wonderful. That's more like it. So this is good we have two more trainings next week and then next

0:47:23
Saturday we're going to do the creation and I think that you know all of you if If you have the right intent, definitely can be successful. But if you just got your intent straight, definitely attend the trainings because you need more guidance. Okay, and going forward in the Sangha, we're going to have monthly Shodan satsangs. And they will always begin with the Kalachakra meditation technique, the Aham Om, you know, because that's like our that's like our Gyaku Zuki and Gedamberai, you know, it's like our bread and butter. And so yeah, so we'll start with that because those are the classic basics. And then we'll have some new shodans that we can support by all meditating together. And then at the end of each shodan satsang, we will do the mandala yoga. So we will all practice together. And this is really good because when you practice the yoga, you're co-creating the dharma. You're infusing the quantum field. And it's a very, very beautiful thing. This is the practice that I do with the seven. And it is the highest practice I've ever, ever, ever, ever, ever done. There's nothing higher than that. And it just keeps getting stronger the more that you practice. So all right. That is that. Thank you all so much and I will see you on Tuesday. All right. Thank you all so much and I will see you on Tuesday. All right.

0:49:21
Goodbye.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
