0:00:00

0:03:14
All right, so I have some difficult news. The news is that I have a cancer diagnosis. It's an acute cancer. The doctors give me like 10 months, and there is a treatment that's possible, but it's, they say, a 20% chance. It's going to include chemo, radiation, and operations.

0:03:40
It's a very rare cancer and it's already metastasized to several organs. So doctors don't think it looks good. So that's the situation. I had a second opinion out of my network. So, you know, Kaiser is sometimes Shizer. And so I went to, I took my results to an oncologist in Blue Cross Blue Shield, and they both agreed with the same diagnosis and prognosis. So, Rama always said, we do Western medicine and we do Eastern medicine.

0:06:17
We don't just do Eastern medicine. Like Steve Jobs was a stupid fucking asshole. Because he could have got an operation just like John, our tractor guy, who's the same surgeon. He was like, I could have done this for Steve Jobs. He had the same diagnosis. And John's alive, and Steve Jobs is dead. And we're going to have some future meetings, because we're going to talk about like another meeting we'll talk about my will and what I want to go forward. Steve Jobs is like, you know what, he's like, the one thing I want going forward for Apple is every two years I want you to change the little thing to get to the board meeting. Just fuck with people.

0:07:10
So I'm not happy about this news, obviously. And what I'm going to be doing, I think, pretty much May the 1st, is I'm going to go back to Hawaii, get my stuff together. And then I'm going to go into the hospital. And it's not going to be very fun for me, going through operations and chemo and stuff like that. But I'm going to do it because that's what Rama always said to do. I'm also going to do Eastern medicine because I totally believe in Eastern medicine.

0:07:51
I saw Rama heal people with cancer all the time. I've seen Amruth Chikitse. I've been there. I've been there for two years watching people come in with stage 4 cancer, and six months later, leaving with nothing. Totally healed. So I totally believe in healing. So when the doctors say, chemo and stuff is only going to help 20%, and you're probably going to die in 10 months, I'm like, oh, OK.

0:08:23
That's the Western opinion. And I also believe in Eastern medicine. So it's not all doom and gloom. But at the same time, we got to be realistic. Because you know, when Jana Sensei was sick, I totally believed in Amruth Chikitse. And I believe in healing. And so does he. He's like, oh, yeah, he saw Rama heal tons of people. And it didn't work out. So sometimes it can work out in magical miracle ways and sometimes it doesn't so this is it this is where we're at and honestly you know as Rama used to say there's no survivors on the planet Earth, right? We're all going to die. And I have to say that I lived the most amazing life. Looking over my incarnation, this is the highest and most beautiful incarnation I've ever had. And it's a very beautiful life and everything's perfect, wonderful, and fantastic. I started getting this information that I might have some illness before my birthday.

0:09:44
And they were like, oh, there's something. We have to do more tests. So, but then immediately when there was something that came up, it made me think, oh no, what if it's something like cancer? And then what it did for me is it made me feel grateful, happy. That's pretty much it. That's what I felt. Because I'm not afraid of death. I know, you know, I advised my death for a long time. and it was many times where I thought I was going to die. Before I came here I was hanging out with the all-stars in Hawaii and they were like if we felt that for five minutes what you've been feeling for 20 plus years they're like we would be out down in bed for like a month and so they they were always trying to tell me play back on the teaching and I'm like but that's what Rama did for us.

0:11:17
So that's why I want to, that's why I always wanted to pay it forward. So this is where we're at and it kind of sucks. But there's still opportunity. There's still time. Now, May 1st I think, I'm going to be going into the hospital for treatments and maybe surgeries and stuff like that. And that's not going to be fun for me. And I'm going to be like tired and weird and all sorts of stuff so I might not be around for a while while I'm going through that intensive surgery and treatment, chemo, radiation, and that's not fun. So I might not be around. Hopefully it works and I get all healed from it and I talked to my doctors about my diet and they're like your diet is super good but you need to lay off the alcohol. What? I can't do chemo while sipping Chardonnay?

0:12:38
I'm like, well okay, I'm gonna do this then. I'm gonna do chemo, I'm gonna lay off the Chardonnay. so yeah that's what that's what's going on it totally sucks it's gonna be the next few months for me it's probably going to be pain in the ass but guess what I can deal with the pain in the ass I know chemo sucks or an operation whatever chemo is probably gonna be worse than an operation and I can deal with it, because I've dealt with all of you. So, yeah, I just wanted to talk to you guys and say, this is where we're at. Now, Rama, when he died, he just woke up dead and his students were surprised I was surprised like what but here's the thing 90% of Rama students think that he just killed himself for some random reason like he's tired of us or something like that but I But I was on security when he was talking to his doctors.

0:14:08
And then I was like, oh, they're talking about liver cancer. And I was like, well, what? And I thought Rama was invincible. I thought he would live 1,000 years. But I heard them talking about that. And I was like, oh, what? Rama? Hm. But he's a great healer, so he can fix it.

0:14:27
And in one satsang, he said, here's one of the secret truths of healing. He's like, you can have massive powers to heal other people, but not yourself. So he had massive powers to heal other people, which he healed many, but not himself. And that's why I liked Amruth Chikitse and Medicine Buddha, because there's a lot of self-healing things, which I totally do. I do Ushapana.

0:15:09
I tap into all the Amruth Chikitse dimensions of healing. And I'm just a fourth and a half level healer. But all the healings for cancer are in that. Yeah, I got direct healings from Theravada Ravana. And I know it didn't work for Jnana Sensei. But those things work for 100,000 other people. So sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. It's a magical miracle. So, you know, when I get back to Hawaii, I'm going to hang out with the All Stars, and I'm going to be like, I'm going to tell them what's going on. And they have some insight. And I got Yuan Miao on speed dial. She's not even a thing anymore.

0:16:11
But in China, they've got this thing called WeChat. So all of her top students and supporters are on her WeChat. Just her best of the best. But I'm on her WeChat, so I can say, yo, what's up? Because she's a miracle healer. She has many stories of healing. And she taught me Mexican Buddha, which is beautiful. So in terms of, and also she knows the karma llama, who healed me when I used to be passing out all the time. Well I go, you guys get mad at me and I have to take a nap.

0:16:55
And so the Karma Lama healed me and I went to meet with him. There's many powerful forces of healing. However, at the same time, when we look at, you know, Jnana Sensei, we gave him all of our best. We brought him to the best healers in the universe. And he still died. So if it's your time, it's your time. And no one's going to live forever. And I was in Safeway, buying something, and there's this guy in front of me, and he might have been like 85 years old.

0:17:40
And I was like, wow, he lived long and I looked at his attention and I'm like oh he had a crappy attention all sorts of trouble with his mind and stuff and I'm like I'm like you know what even if I lived a much shorter time I lived a really good life best the most wonderful miraculous life Where I grew up in a bunch of Karma And I met this enlightened teacher who totally transformed my life and Empowered me to give me a hard time taught me brought me to enlightenment and and then I wanted to share his teachings to all of you.

0:18:23
And paying it forward to all of you who are Shodans, you have the empowerment of the lineage of this school. This is a very deep, powerful thing. All the empowerments of the school. Thousands of dimensions are within you. And each of you are going to display it, share it, bring it forth in many different ways. There's always that tanka of there's the Buddha in the middle, and then there's this arhant over there teaching a different group, and an Arhant over there teaching another group, and an Arhant over there teaching another group, da da da da da, and that is you. You're going to bring enlightenment forth from the center of these teachings in many ways, you're going to bring enlightenment to the school.

0:19:36
So that's good. So, you know, when I got the final diagnosis of what's going on, I was all, Ooh, damn. You know, because I'd like to hang out. The longer I'm here, the more I'm going to teach. And I really want to stay here and teach the Ashira structure, the Sangha, each one of you. Everything that you're doing. Reaching out into the world of teaching spirituality is amazing. And I don't want to die. Who wants to die? And at the same time, I understand that death comes to all of us. And I could just right now go, be 100 years old, and be like, Oh, I'm going to die. And you guys are like, Oh, that's so sad.

0:20:51
Reminds me of that South Park song, that Christmas song, Dead, Dead, Dead. You guys know that? Dead, dead, dead. Someday you'll be dead. Dead, dead, dead. Someday we'll all be dead. The minute we're born, we start dying. We start dying every day. Very cute.

0:21:12
It's just the world, everything. So when it's your time, it's your time. That's it. You can't stop it. So we have to accept it. And it's kind of sad to accept. Why me? Because you're going to fucking die. You're all going to fucking die. You might live to 100 years. Good! God bless you to live to 100 years. Live to 100 years in truth, in yoga, in dharma. And if I get 50 years and that's it, it's been in truth and dharma my whole fucking life. I'm happy about that and the thing that I'm just a little bothered by is that I'm gonna have to go to chemotherapy it's gonna suck okay my next point is I told about like eight Shodans this was going down with me oh my god!

0:22:27
And they try and get, because Shodans are magical. So you guys are all like, let me seek a way of healing in my seeing. And let me manage and help and all these things. And so I talked to like a dozen people, and I told them. Or seven or eight okay and then they all came back to me with like oh there's this thing and that thing and this thing and that thing and this thing and that thing and I'm like I'm grateful that you want to help me however everyone's going to have an opinion they're going to be like oh I really believe this, I really believe that. And opinions are like assholes. We all have two.

0:23:26
So, I appreciate that you guys want to help me. is to have Bodhicitta, is to have no toxic thoughts in your mind, be at peace with the whole sangha, be uplifting in yoga, everything of all the teachings, Shodans, bring it into light. on But you guys don't really do? Bicker, bicker, bicker, bicker, bicker. Even Arhantss bicker, bicker, bicker, bicker, bicker. Ooh, something's not right. Um, yeah, that is where this all came from. So, according to my palmistry, I should live until 84. And, but, I have done this thing.

0:24:53
Rama, when he gave us the teachings of the transmissions, he said, I don't recommend that you do it. Even though it's super powerful, super enlightening for your students, he said, I don't recommend that you do it. But he did. And I was like, I'm going to do that. That best thing that he did, those transmissions, opening your whole aura to your students, being vulnerable and accepting what happens, even though you're sensitive, you're elevated, and they're bringing you the gutter.

0:25:35
I was like, that's what my teacher did for me, I'm going to do it for my students. Now, in Ashira, we have a new structure. Yeah, help from the all-stars, but it's a network. It's not one person getting smashed. It's not that one person going, like a rocket ship. It is a network of every single one of you. And when, you know, someone goes out to the desert and does a transmission, someone goes out and does an online Zoom transmission, it's a network of amazing empowered Shodans. And so it's not going to be that because you work together, because you are a network, because there is a unity in many enlightened people and many completely empowered shoguns, that we can create a safe space. If I had a hundred me's dealing with you guys and teaching you guys, I'd be fine. The illness that I have is because it's, you know, transmission teachers don't live a long time. They usually don't. But ashira is a force that we've created.

0:27:43
But transmission teachers usually live a little while, they do some magic and some spiritual stuff, they Jesus it out, and then in the end it ends up not so good. But what I've learned over the years, going through the struggles and changes here, is that ashira is a strong structure. I don't want you to give up on that. I want you to say, in this lifetime, I've been a part of a pyramid. I've been a brick in this pyramid. And this is something that has elevated consciousness. And I don't want you to give up on that. Scruffy. So, I know where we're at in this lifetime. It seems like I'm dropping a bomb.

0:28:56
But, you know, I've been talking about this for a long time. I'm like, oh, ouch, ooh, ooh, ooh. Passing out, my heart's beating too fast, all sorts of things. And now it's a bad prognosis for my life. And I am absolutely going to go into a whole bunch of chemotherapy and stuff like that. And I won't be around. But that's why I'm telling my Shodans. I want you guys to step up. Yeah.

0:29:37
Yeah, Rama, to 90% of his students, he just took drugs and killed himself. He thought, oh, man, we were figured out. We were such jerks. He wanted to kill himself. But 10% of his students probably knew that he was going to die. He had liver cancer. And he didn't go into chemo. He was just like, it's so bad, it's the end. He said, I'd rather take some pills and kill myself.

0:30:26
But I'm telling you because look at what happened to Rama's Sangha. They went sideways crazy up and down left and right. And I don't want you to do that. I want you to know that seeing me as a person, talking, is one aspect of myself. But I am an eternal being of powerful enlightenment for this whole Sangha. And even if a comet shot through that window, hit me in the head and killed me right now. Because that can happen in any moment. Unless you have good Jujitsu. Anyway, but no, that can happen. We are here for a bigger purpose.

0:31:34
That's just the Guru's personality. And Krishna was awesome. He was off the hook. Everything that he said was funny, cool, tricked everybody, best thing. Right? And that was the Godhead personality, but it was enlightenment. So, you guys look at me, I caught up how a bunch of ST1s and ST2s looked at Rama and they're like, Oh, he's the best. He's cool. But, here's what I say to you. Enlightenment is within all of you. You have all of the transmissions, you guys are all the best, you're the greatest. However, don't let that create a division.

0:32:25
Let's all come together. And even if I'm the one who brought you together and I perish, I want all of you to continue with the structure of the school. And if you disagree with that, then quit right now. I never want to talk to you again walk out the door, get out of here but if you're going to sit here and respect this and be a part of it, then commit in your heart 100% otherwise just leave because I only have a little time left and I don't want to work with people who are totally committed.

0:33:23
I'm totally committed to my teacher and that's how I have enlightenment. If you're a Shodan and you had the same experience, no matter what hardships and difficulties you've had, let's get back to the heart of where this came from and commit to yourself. I'm telling you this because when Rama died we were like, oh, he didn't tell us anything. He just went and died. But I'm telling you because I want you to be a strong Sangha. Because you can make many people enlightened beyond this time. And that's what, you know, no other student of Rama's does. They all flake away. I follow his teachings. Every single part of it. And I want you guys to move forward. I want you to take this forward.

0:34:27
You can make many more enlightened people in this world. And I don't have to be here. But, I'm in the second attention, you know, if I got hit by a comet right now, right, guess what? I'm a spirit beyond the physical and a very strong spirit and I can teach in the second bardo tension and beyond and create this magic power of enlightenment that fuels you to do great things so this is what i'm here for that i don't want disunity i want showdowns to come together and be great. You know, when Jesus was teaching, he was teaching the twelve disciples and they were all, hmm, interesting, ooh, ooh, but then when they saw him go through his death, they woke up and then they started teaching powerful teachings.

0:35:49
Our teacher's teachings were massive, powerful. That's what created the religion of Christianity. It was the disciples watching their great teacher be murdered and then they were like we need to wake up. That will get their spirit up. And I hope that this does for you too. So I'm going to not be around for a while. And at the same time, it's really cool. I talked to some students, and they were like, oh, if you have this illness, have this diet, oh, there's this random teacher.

0:36:51
Oh, there's this other random teacher. I'm telling you this because I want the Sangha to be strong. Otherwise I would just disappear and just die somewhere. Or maybe survive and then come back. But I don't want to talk about all the things about managing my health care. I'm not an idiot, and we're going to be able to work through it. It will just be me and Savitri. And everyone's going to be like, oh, but I found this thing on Twitter that says, if you say this, and do this, and all sorts of stuff. Or TikTok, you do the dance.

0:38:05
I'll do the dance. But everyone has a different viewpoint. Everyone wants to help me. I totally appreciate it. But I don't even want to talk about illness with you. If I ever talk to you, I don't want to talk about illness and then I'm gonna go away in a short time and if I go get all sickly from chemo and operations you might never see me again it will not appear in front of you I won't go on a zoom I won't sit in front If I get all sickly and then I have to go to hospice... This is not...

0:38:53
It's not easy for me. But Rama didn't even tell his students that he was sick. He just died all of a sudden. I'm telling you, because I want you to stand up. And also, I want you to get straight with your teacher. A lot of, even Shodons and Arhats, are mad at me, have trouble with me, weird thoughts about me, and I have two middle fingers. These two. Yeah, come on. So this is where you need to get straight with your teacher. I don't want you to be like Ganga Nath. Ganga Nath has so much heart. He's so wonderful and he actually loves Rama deep down in his heart.

0:40:14
And then he gave us lots of beautiful teachings and I said, you know, that's all wishy-washy. Start teaching Rama teachings. And he's like, I love Rama. But he's got all this confusion in his mind. He can't even say a good word about Rama to a school of Rama. He can talk about some Swami, but he can't talk about Rama. Even though he had amazing experiences with Rama. And I told him, I said, me and my school will totally support you if you talk about Rama's teachings.

0:41:02
And he's all, I can't, I can't. And I was like, oh, why? Because he had trouble in his mind about his teacher. And if you have trouble in your thoughts or in your heart about me, this is the time to fix it. Otherwise, you're in a huge amount of trouble. And it's pathetic and lame. So Ganga Nath, who's a wonderful fellow, could say so many wonderful things about all sorts of things. And if he's sitting with me and we're driving somewhere, he could be like, Oh, yeah, one time Rama told me this amazing, wonderful thing.

0:41:43
And I'm all, wow, that's cool. Tell my students. And he's like, nope, can't. Something in his heart, he didn't figure it out. This wonderful, powerful, enlightened teacher. And he can't so it's ridiculous you know I said like close to the end of Rama's life he was doing a book signing for surfing the Himalayas or something like that of Rama's students came and they were angry at him. And all he did was show them the whole pathway to enlightenment. Only the good, anything of a life, they got from him. And then they were angry, mad, because things weren't working out, they had bad ideas, oh whatever, but so. And he was like, wow, they're all angry at me.

0:42:49
This enlightened person who did the best for everyone. Look at the enlightened students. That's what he did. So, I have students like that. Who are mad at me, angry at me, have bad attitudes towards me, negative thoughts about me. This is your opportunity to get straight with your teacher. It's an opportunity that you should take. Because having a bad energy towards your teacher will end up like Ganga Nath, who deep in his heart, he loves his teacher, but he can't say a good word about his teacher.

0:43:31
That's so sad. It's horribly sad. One of my greatest things in my life is that I met my teacher. I've never thought a bad thought about him. He kicked my ass, and I learned from it. I didn't say, he's wrong. I'm so grateful that I was able to hear every word that he said, every difficulty that he pushed at me, because he pushed a lot, that's why I do these things, and that I could be happy and grateful and learn from him and not mad and itchy and angry. So, this is good.

0:44:23
So, it's very important, you know, because this might be it. Whoever is online or where I'm sitting right now, I'm going to go into the hospital, and I'm going to be like maybe tired and sick and stuff. You guys might not see me ever again. And if I'm sickly, you will not see me. If I'm all sickly and stuff like that, I don't want you to see me that way. And I want you guys to remember me. I don't want you to think of me as a sickly person because right now I'm vibrant I'll kick your ass and once I start to get sick and I start to diminish into the West then I'll accept that, but I won't be seen by my students.

0:45:44
I don't want your help. I don't want you to tend to me. I got one person who's going to help me. It's Savitri. That's it. I will talk to her. I'll say, all right, now I need this. And she might pull upon a couple people to help me. And that's it but I don't even want to talk about my illness. I don't want you to come over and say oh I found something on YouTube that says something about cancer. I don't want to hear it.

0:46:15
Like trust me I have enough tonal deal with my illness and I also have Savitri who can help me manage anything outside of that. And if we have to do that, it's going to be through Savitri. Don't sit there and send me something that you found on TikTok about how they help cancer. Just don't do it. Because I've already talked to a bunch of people, and they start sending me stuff and I'm like, come on, don't do it. I'm going to talk to the people that I'm aware of and that's it. I don't need to hear a hundred different opinions or cares or interests or how you want to have a conversation with any of you about my illness. Everything that I want to talk to you about is your enlightenment, your empowerment, your dharma. Don't worry about me. 

0:47:34
So I'm definitely going to have some more meetings. We're going to call Shodans. I might not give you a lot of notice, because it's going to all happen between now and May. I've got to go back, and I've got to see the all-stars, I've got to hear what they say. I've got to go through all this stuff. All right, that's all I have to say.

0:48:14
Wait, maybe I have more to say. I want to see. Yeah, get right with your teacher. That's an important thing. Like, where's that one asshole? Oh, he's not here. Ishta. That motherfucker needs to get right with his teacher. Because I told Ishta, you fucked up so bad, Rama would have kicked you out.

0:48:40
And then this asshole, Ishta, he doesn't believe me. He believes his alcoholic girlfriend and he wants to put all his energy into her. And so he used to be such a great student. He used to be straight with his teacher. And then he goes, my teacher's wrong and now I want to put my energy into this, I call it feeding her karma, which is being bad. So assholes like him need to figure their shit out. I just have to pull that out. I have to say that. And I hope, and if he doesn't get this, everyone needs to tell him what I'm saying, because he used to be such a good student, and then he thinks I'm against his girlfriend, so he's now angry at me, and he says I'm wrong. I'm like, dude, you need to fix that shit.

0:49:55
Otherwise, you're already off. You're falling off the pathway to enlightenment. You don't believe in your enlightened teacher, you believe in your alcoholic girlfriend. So if you have bad thoughts about me, fix it. Something I was talking to the Bay Area about on the beach, I said I'm not going to be around so I'm not going to be around in the next summer solstice and hopefully just that. I said you need to start connecting to me in the second attention and not just a personality. I know I tell jokes and I say things so that I'm engaging to the first attention, but everything that I'm teaching is in the second attention.

0:50:57
And Shodans, you need to connect to me in the second attention. So we're going to talk further about how we're going to handle upcoming structures in the Sangha. Teachings, stuff like that. But, you know, what is today? The 16th? I'm heading back tomorrow, and then I think on, and then I got a bunch of stuff to do to figure out over there. And guess what that's going to be? Super shitty. And so once I head into the Western medicine stuff, I'm going to be like, hmmm, well, probably. Maybe if I'm, if I, maybe chemo doesn't do anything to me, I'll be all like, oh, chemo's no big deal. Then I'll do teachings. But I can imagine I'm going to go into a world of Western treatment.

0:52:13
And I know that Amruth Chikitse says, don't even do that. But Rama said, do both. So I'm going to do chemo and Ushapana and medicine and stuff like that. Yes? 

Is your satsang going to be when you'll tell other students? Do you want us to explicitly not tell Bodhans and junior students? 

Yeah, so the whole reason that I'm talking to Shodans is because you are the fully empowered people of the lineage. And I do not want to tell anyone else until I go into hospice. If the treatment does not work and I get into the end game, then I'll say, now we can tell people.

0:53:09
Because if you start to tell Bodans and stuff and my mom's gonna find out and it's gonna be pain in the ass. I was visiting my mom. I got hats from her, but she's got a lot of health problems herself And I don't want to stress her out. So Yeah for my mom don't tell anyone else If my mom comes to me and starts saying, oh my god, I heard you got cancer. I'm like, who told you? Because I have a sword. Yeah, anyway. But yeah, this is for anyone who's got the transmission of the lineage.

0:54:01
And I'm telling you, I didn't have to tell you, I could just like randomly die like Rama did and then you guys can deal with it. But I'm telling you because I want you to get straight with the Sangha, get straight with your Guru and I want this Sangha to go on because this Sangha could make many more people enlightened, it's just that we have to care. This is not a Sangha of my personality. I've got a good personality, like, tell my silly jokes and stuff like that. All you teachers teach, you teach enlightenment. And I want that to be in this structure. We're going to talk about the structures of teaching in the future, but I'm telling, you know, Shodans because I don't want to just like disappear and you guys go, ooh, what do we do?

0:55:04
very strong plan going forward. And I think it totally sucks. But I'm all like, oh, it totally sucks. But if I lived 50 more years, yeah, I'd love it and help more people. But you know, whenever I lived, it was good. And it was wonderful. I'm happy about it. And you know, everyone is going to die at some point. It's not something to take so personally. It happens to all of us. Live your life impeccably, perfectly, and blatantly with gratitude and compassion for all.

0:55:54
And then when you face death, it's, you know. You wanna do more, of course, but it's okay. All right, that is what I wanna talk about. But I will, like, randomly say, hey Shodans, I wanna talk to you guys. I don't know when, like, maybe next Saturday or something like that, because I get that. Monday, I might want to talk to you Tuesday. Just be aware that I might like say randomly I'll talk to you. I don't want these recorded, or if they're recorded, throw them out.

0:56:45
But show up because this is the time where I'm talking to my students about the future. Thank you. Thank you so much. And this has been the whole reason that I've been talking about gratitude, gratitude, gratitude. Like when I look at, oh, you want extra tests? How does that make you feel? Gratitude. how's it feel oh we got more tests oh some kind of cancer? gratitude. oh it's some shitty cancer more tests? gratitude. okay here you're fucked Of course, at the same time, really sad.

0:57:31
But I'm grateful. Alright, thank you so much. We'll talk more about all these things. But I just wanted to drop that bomb and to know this is going to happen to all of you. It happens to me a little earlier, it just happens. The most important thing is your heart and your enlightened consciousness and what you do to help people. That's it. I mean, we're all going to die. It's impossible. There's no survivors on the planet Earth, as Rama used to say. Just do your best and then everyone's going to die. So that's my, as Krishna would say at the end of the Bhagavad Gita, that's my opinion. Thank you all. I'm so happy to be here. You guys are the best.

0:58:52
And also, you guys are the future to create enlightenment for many more people. Ashira can be very strong. We'll be talking about that in the future. Kamsahamnida. Anyway, so what are we going to do now? Are we having a party? Do you want to party? Yeah.

0:59:32
We have some food. Yeah, we should party. Yeah, we're going to talk about my will, because I think in my will it says, you guys are going to party at the end. You know, stuff like that. And it's really beautiful that you guys are very open and accepting and understanding, and not all like crazy emotional and weird. So we've all practiced advising our death, right?

1:00:07
And we all know, someday it's going to come. So we just do the best that we can, every moment that we're alive. And that's what we do. And I've been doing that for a long time, so... I'm all like, I don't want to leave, I love you guys so much, and I would love to stay longer to help more people. But, every one of you, you can bring it to the next level. There was this one Zen master, who was a great Zen master, I forgot his name. But he was like, he was dying. And he reminds us all, like, Oh, Zen master, you're the best. You know all the things.

1:00:51
You gave all the insight, all the amazing teachings. And the Zen Master was like, oh, it's good for me to die. And they're all, why? We're all sad. He said, because Zen will open in new ways. He's like, as long as I'm here, it's going to do it in my way. But when I leave, it's going to open in a dozen new ways. So that's also true. Okay, thank you.

