0:00:00
Hello? You guys there? Yeah, hello, we hear you. Oh, okay. Wow, okay. I've been pushing all sorts of buttons.

0:00:06
Finally got through.

0:00:07
You know, it's not, it doesn't work like it used to. Like, it's like a whole bunch of different things going on. Okay.

0:00:10
Anyway, what's going on?

0:00:11
What's up? What are we doing? Okay, so, I'm going to go ahead and start the recording.

0:00:14
I'm going to go ahead and start the recording. I'm going to go ahead and start the recording. I'm going to go ahead and start the recording. I'm going to go ahead and start the recording.

0:00:18
I'm going to go ahead and start the recording.

0:00:19
I'm going to go ahead and start the recording. I'm going to go ahead and start the recording. I'm going to go ahead and start the recording. I'm going to go ahead and start the recording. I'm going to go ahead and start the recording. I'm going to go ahead and start the recording. I'm going to go ahead and start the recording. I'm going to go ahead and start the recording.

0:00:27
I'm going to go ahead and start the recording.

0:00:28
I'm going to go ahead and start the recording.

0:00:29
things going on. Okay, anyway, what's going on? What's up? What are we doing?

0:00:34
I believe you're giving us the mandala teaching. Oh, I'm doing a mandala teaching. Okay. Sorry, I have a very strong dysphoria from my medications, going on. Alright, so this is the Kala Chakra Mandala instruction. It is Thursday, right? Is it? Yes, this is the second, it's Thursday, the second teaching. Okay, cool. Thursday, the second teaching. Sorry, you know, it's really difficult for me because I have a side effect from my teaching, I mean a side effect from my medication where I get dysphoria and confusion and so it's hard for me to tell what's going on towards the end of the day. But, now that I'm oriented, I'm definitely very, very strong in the Kalachakra Mandala instruction. And then, I would definitely love to be able to help you with that. So we've already gone through the first part, which is just understanding it, getting an introduction to it. And now what we need to do is we need to start to realize the most you know, the fundamental structures. This is meditation, mindfulness, yoga, you know, all of our disciplines and practices that bring the power to our study, they come, thousands of dimensions of this come from the the mandala the kalachakra so when we when we start to go to the next level we're talking about how can we um in this vast uh experience of the kalachakra mandala how can we bring meditation as we know it? Which makes it, it draws it out, it makes it accessible from our own awareness and our own experience and So, this is what we need to do. We need to start focusing on, now that we had a little bit of an introduction, what about our most basic fundamental practices of the school. It's like meditation, martial arts, job success, karma yoga, and if you're lucky, bodhichitta. And then all the things that have been, I want you to just kind of reflect on, what are the things in the school that have been the powerful things for you? I mean, that you recognize as the fundamental aspects of the school that have worked for you, that have been like strong spiritual guides and powers for you. What has it been? A lot of it has to be a deep, connected way of the heart, focusing on the Dharma. So, in this round of understanding the mandala, we're going to be focusing not just on the vague aspects of the mandala, but of core that elevate that elevated you that you've seen empower other people because understanding this down here a very deep ground aspect of your experience of what you are aware of is the thing that is going to be empowering the mandala, creating that opportunity for others. Okay, hold on a second. What is my computer doing? Sorry. My phone is doing something weird. I don't know what's going on. You guys, can you guys still hear me?

0:06:31
Yes.

0:06:37
Can you guys hear me?

0:06:39
Yes.

0:06:41
Okay, sorry.

0:06:43
My phone is telling me that you can't hear me.

0:06:51
Well, you just muted, so now we can't hear you.

0:07:06
You're on mute now. We can't hear you. Okay. I think I figured it out. All right. You're off mute.

0:07:33
We can hear you. Okay, sorry about that. Yeah, working on technical devices is definitely different. Okay, so yeah, so the second thing to be aware of is not only, last time I introduced you to the big picture. And now what we're going to do is we're going to be focused on that big picture. And you got to, you know, it's like you can't know what it is. You can't know every detail about it. You just have to be like open to your spirit to feel, okay, that's the general direction. And now we're going to start to layer on awareness of the most intense, strongest disciplines. We're going to go into that and we're going to say, I have this intention of the most powerful things, martial arts, the yoga that made the money to get us to the advanced teachings, meditation, mindfulness, bodhicitta. We have to say, okay, we're gonna get really down to these core practices and really feel that everything that does are for you and have been for the school. And now we're going to expand that awareness of that core root strength that you have. We're gonna expand that into a bigger picture. And so same big picture that I showed you last time, because I showed you the totality of the mandala. And now we're gonna see the totality of the mandala. We're gonna bring in our powers, the root of all of our practice, into that mandala. And then when we bring it in, it brings it into a higher view, a bigger way. And it grows from the root practices that we had into, let's say, giant sequoias of Dharma. I don't know if you guys understand me. I hope you do. But you don't need to. If you don't understand, then just disregard what I'm saying in words. And then let's try to follow me in this second attention. I don't know if I even understand what I'm saying at this moment. Okay, so, what I'd like to do is I'd like to do a meditation. And I'd like you guys to play the music because I guess you guys couldn't hear my music last time. You know, we're in that mood of the yogi. We're in the mood of that empowered shodhan. We're in the mood of the arhant, of the school. And that mood is a mood of that, the powers of the school, martial artist, great business person, strong meditation practice, all that feeling of who we are and what we do and what's made us a successful school. We're going to take that mood and we're going to bring that mood as a seed into a whole new universe and it is the new mandala of teaching. And right now it's gonna be a seed where it's not mature, because this is all new, but we're gonna bring it in. It's gonna be a seed. That seed is going to grow into something that we can't even imagine right now. And that's where we're going to just bring it in as our feeling, as a seed. The intention is we're taking this maturity that we have, and bringing that maturity into a fertile ground. And then, you know, being reborn, kind of really in that moment. So just the intention to, you know, hold everything that we've ever been, that our son has ever been good at. Because we've been bad at a lot of stuff, but what we've been good at, what's been bright, happy, and powerful and enlightening, that's what we are going to bring this focus on into this view of the new mandala. So I'd like to sit with you for one song, and we'll play the same song that you guys didn't hear last time. It's gonna be Mystery School. Mystery School, a crystal dome.

0:13:05
Crystal Dome.

0:13:07
So whoever is on music, that will be our song. And for this, it's good to have a soft focus on the third eye.

0:13:20
Just a soft focus.

0:13:22
Don't try too hard. Really trust yourself. Set your second attention's intent. Say, I'm gonna focus my intent on the second attention. I might not know anything in the first attention, but I have to trust that I have been empowered in the Kala Chakra, and so I have to trust that if I set my intent, that I will be enriching this mandala and the sangha experience. And I just have to trust that. And then when you say that you trust it, you have to believe it 100%, you're perfect at it because you've been empowered. And then just see what you experience, be open to your experience, but there's nothing that you have to do. You know, there's nothing that you've got to do. You're totally qualified. It's just, you know, your Buddha nature is there. It's just automatic. So don't think that it's gonna be something that you can't do, that's hard to do, just trust yourself, have the intention of opening your second intention to do this work, and then we'll be able to take our second step into this. All right, so I'd like to sit for one song, gentle focus on the third eye with that intention of knowing the roots of the power of us. Will everything that you've ever seen work and be powerful and be happy and strong. And then bring that to the new mandala as a seed. Then it will grow from there. All the good stuff that we know, strong stuff, powerful stuff, we're going to bring it as a seed to the mandala, and it will grow from there. All right, so sit up nice and straight, and or kick back and relax, and we're going to have a soft focus on the third eye, and then while we do this with your intention, I'm going to be opening it up. I'm going to be making sure that all of these beautiful intentions get to the right field where it's fertile to grow. All right, let's begin.

0:16:21
So the the the the so so So so You're not alone. the So So So So So So So so All right, it's very beautiful. All right, you guys are coming along.

0:25:16
A lot of you guys are doing this very, very well. Some of you are like, what's going on? And here's the thing. Trust yourself. Like, really, really let yourself agree. And say, no. Like, I'm empowered. I am empowered and I can do this. So that means trust yourself. You definitely are empowered in this Kala Chakra empowerment of this really beautiful, elevated, enlightened school, very special. And so that means that you've been given it. And so now you need to just trust yourself and let yourself do it. Don't say I can't, I don't know what's going on. Figure out what you can do and what is going on that you're aware. And then once you say you can, then you'll really open up to the thousands of dimensions. So don't say you can't. Say I haven't done it before, it's been, you know, I've been in a smaller, you know, view, but then because this is a bigger need, I have to say I'm going to be open to that, trust myself. I'll see the bigger picture and I'll add what I can. I'll send my intent in the right way. I'll try all of this for the sangha. Alright, I think that's what I wanted to cover. And it's nice that you guys let me know what's going on. And yeah, so just take this step. And we'll have more steps. And then eventually it'll all come together, I'm sure.

0:27:21
All right, everyone, thank you.

0:27:22
Thank you so much. You know, if you want, you can do a little bit of practice during the week, but it's not necessary. It's most important to really like reflect on what I said tonight.

0:27:40
All right, thank you all.

0:27:41
Be well, and I'll see you. I know that we have a new, no, 1 p.m. on Saturday. So I know I will be there then, but you guys are probably gonna have to call me then and say hey there's a teaching I'll be out oh yeah my dysphoria or my meds just a little odd anyway but I'm here like once you catch me I know the Dharma and we're going in a good way you guys are doing well so be well and I'll see you next time.

0:28:26
Thanks. Thanks.

0:28:27
Aloha and Mahalo.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
