0:00:00
Alright, so we're going to zoom Hesha in?

0:00:31
Yes.

0:00:32
And could we have visual on that? We'll just put the laptop here so she can see.

0:00:37
Let's see. Yeah. That is...

0:00:43
Alright. Yeah, when I figured out how I could put other people into it, I was like, I could imagine having like a yoga work day, everybody doing Karmananda. One other thing about Karmananda

0:01:07
is it's like you're working and you come into this union with it, it's very blissful. It's also a positive energy for meditation, because the Kundalini's up and it's very active in your physical body. So that's why a nectation could be good.

0:02:07
Okay. Take this little sign here, that's the diamond, the diamond is mandala. Okay. Yeah, it's the diamond mandala. Okay. Okay. Ah, okay, yeah, the diamond one, I'll have it. Okay. Thanks, this is fun. This is cool. That sounds good. Let's see, after this, try it. Okay, by the way, sounds fabulous, right?

0:02:30
OK, I wish that was accurate, isn't it? I hope that you hear my voice.

0:02:40
Excellent.

0:02:42
Okay. All right.

0:02:44
All right.

0:02:45
All right. All right.

0:02:47
All right. All right.

0:02:49
All right.

0:02:50
All right.

0:02:51
All right.

0:02:52
All right.

0:02:53
All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right.

0:03:08
All right. All right. All right.

0:03:11
There's the music.

0:03:12
Perfect. All right, thank you so much, Corey.

0:03:14
Oh, yeah.

0:03:15
Why not?

0:03:16
One more. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right, everyone.

0:04:36
So today is a wonderful day. And we are going to do the College Hopper Empowerment for Ekatjati and Doshin. So, this is going to be the initiation into the advanced teachings of this school. And it is what my teacher called the first enlightenment empowerment. It's an empowerment of the crown chakra, not of the navel chakra. And I'm going to give the instructions, all Shodans know the instructions, but then I'm going to give the empowerment. And I'm going to give the full chakra empowerment, which is the 1008th empowerment. The 1008 Empowerments, Empowerment. The 1008 Esoteric Teachings of the Kala Chakra. That's on the docket for today. Alright, so I'll begin with what's a Kala Chakra. So, the Kala Chakra, the Kala Chakra is a vehicle of enlightenment. You could say it's a doctrine of enlightenment. But it is vast, and it is in the second dimension. Vast meaning ten thousand universes of Dharma, and enlightenment power, and teachings, and structures, let's say. And it's, it was something that was put together, created by some great, great, great, great Buddha many lokas ago, but it remains a very, very, very, very powerful vehicle of enlightenment. And that is the vehicle that we use in this school. There's also another doctrine called the Chakra Sampara, which is also another doctrine of enlightenment. But ours is Kali Chakra. So, we're going to be initiating these Bodons to the Shodan level. That means that they have a complete access to the Kala Chakra, and also the school's structures and accesses of that. Because when I created the Diamond Mandala, I went across the Kala Chakra picking things up and building things, putting them together into a mandala that is useful for this world, useful for the enlightenment of the Sangha. So the Kala Chakra is vast, and you could be in some totally different dimension and still use it, but you would use it differently. And so we create a construct from the Kalachakra and we take thousands of dimensions that come together that work for us. So when I created the diamond mandala, this is something that is very, very, very, very powerful and useful for the case of this school. And so when I give you this empowerment, it's giving you kind of the keys to use all of those structures.

0:08:37
And then later today, we're gonna like

0:08:39
drop the diamond mandala and create a new mandala. And then because they're all showed on to be part of the new mandala. So this is what we're going into. Three easy steps

0:08:55
to enlighten.

0:08:57
That's the Kalachakra. So our way of using the Kalachakra is enlightenment guaranteed. And that enlightenment guaranteed in three easy steps. I'm going to make a book. And if you do these three steps, you become enlightened without a doubt. All right, so the first step, and this is something we all must do. Even shodans, even even liberated Shodons, we say, I'm going to do this first step. And that is, know that you can be enlightened. That's the first step. If you know you can be enlightened, you can be enlightened. If you don't know it, now you know. But, no, you can be enlightened. And it's really kind of a sad thing that I see a lot in Buddhism. After my teacher died, I was going around all throughout the East looking for another enlightened teacher, because I thought I had to have one. And then I was going around, and I went from ashram to monastery to monastery to ashram, and I was like, oh, is there anyone enlightened here?

0:10:28
They're all, hmm.

0:10:29
I'm like, do you know anyone who's enlightened? And they're all, Buddha was. I'm like, but what about, do you know anyone? No one knows anyone enlightened. And it probably went to like 400 monasteries. And I was like, oh, hmm, wonder why. Buddha's teachings taught enlightenment. You could read his teachings, and he's teaching, Buddha's giving a teaching, and in that teaching, three people become arhats. You read another teaching, he's teaching, a person becomes an arhat. And I'm like, well, why are these teachings enlightened, but all these monks are not enlightened? And there's a big thing that says, only Buddha can be enlightened, and I'm a jerk. And so I can't be enlightened. There's a big, heavy theme in people's minds. So you've got to really say, hey, remember all those teachings of enlightenment that Buddha said? They're real. And you have to kind of know that in your heart. And also, all those teachings on you have Buddha nature, om mani padme hum, lotus, the jewel within, all of those things are true. You are, you have Buddha nature. Enlightenment is your true nature. So you have to say, I'm going to let go of the idea that I can't be enlightened and have to know I can be enlightened. So I want you to take a moment, and if you're an art monk, there's always higher enlightenment. So we want to say, I could be, you know, we want to see the vision of the Buddha, and say, I could be the Buddha, I could be that highest enlightenment. So take a moment, and in your heart, I want you to say, no, I can't. I'll just let go of the ideas that I can't. I'm going to accept my Buddha nature. Let's just sit in silence for just a minute.

0:12:32
Okay. Very nice. I remember when my teacher taught this, I was kind of like, what?

0:13:19
I didn't know words. And then he was like, this is the teaching you can, and that's the first step you have to take. And then I said, well, if he says I can, then I will drop my ideas and I will believe my teacher. And it's a very sad thing because I remember after the teaching, many ST1s and ST2s didn't believe it. They were like, oh, nope.

0:14:08
They were like, I can't.

0:14:10
I was like, but, but, but, but, why didn't you just do it? They were just like, I can't. In their minds, in the far east, all the monks, they're like, Buddha, you know, they think the bald guy, the ancient dude. And then for all the Brahma students, I can't be him because I'm not six foot three, white, and have curly blonde hair. But that was Buddha to them.

0:14:44
Isn't that funny?

0:14:45
And it was such a strong thing because he was so powerful. He could walk on air, walk on water, heal people with a touch. Everyone saw it and they were all, I can't walk on air, so I can't be Buddha. So they saw him do miracles and they were like, I can't do miracles, I'm not him. And And they really didn't believe they could. And I was all, okay. That's a bummer. But then, most of them got stuck on the second part of what we're going to do now. And when we're doing it now, you get that part done. So the second part is, go for enlightenment and don't stop no matter what. So, what comes up is sometimes you get to a place in life where you're kind of happy. You're like, oh wow, my meditation is going pretty good, I'm very happy. Oh, I got a good job. Everything's pretty good. And then you stop that drive for liberation. You get comfortable. And that's the time where you have to realize, realize in your heart, I mean right now realize in your heart, that nothing will satisfy your spirit to bring you to peace, to make you truly happy, except for enlightenment, and more and more enlightenment. So you could have your castle, your own planet, all the jewels, all the money, all the relations, everything, and then in your heart, you'll still, you didn't even get everything, you'll still not get peace. Buddha, when he was on his quest to be the highest, before he was liberated, he went to heaven. He's all, da-da, now I'm in heaven, yay, but I'm not happy enough. So he goes to a higher heaven, to a higher heaven, to the highest, highest, highest heaven. And he's like, I'm still not happy enough. And he's all, hmm. Then that's when he started to go, I mean, it comes from within. You have to come to enlightenment, not just keep going higher and higher. Heaven's pretty cool, but it's still not satisfying. So, the other thing that comes up is bad stuff that makes you stop. a bad day and you get all bummed out, and you're like, oh, man, I just never do the

0:17:41
enlightenment.

0:17:42
You just start thinking, because those are the things again. Everything's bad, my meditation's not good, all these things. And so, when everything seems bad, you have to also say, and this is the reason why I got into Enlightenment, because everything seems so bad. Don't let bad data stop you from pushing for liberation. And then the biggest thing that comes up that is on the bad part is your samskaras. So in order to be liberated, you have to cross the final samskara, which means just letting go of the connection to that, going beyond that karma. But everybody has a really intense samskara, and for some people it's fear, for some people it's desire, for some people it's clowns. Everyone has their own constructs of karmas, and they've gone through so many patterns of it that it becomes a deep samskara. So when that comes up, that karma seems so impossible to break or to let go of. It seems impossible, but you have to say, no, I'm going to let go of this attachment forever because I want enlightenment. I'm going to let go, I'm going to go through this fear, I'm going to face this fear, go through it, because I want enlightenment. I'm not going to let any karma or samskara get in the way. I'm going for enlightenment no matter what. My experience with that was, I was going out into the desert, Zion, standing at that cliff, you guys know, looking over the canyon, and standing next to that cliff at the edge, and it falls down for hundreds of feet. I felt fear. I felt the power of the canyon, and it felt like, oh my gosh, it's powerful. And now I'm afraid. I'm afraid of falling in. I'm afraid of dying. And then I left. But that fear kept coming back to me. It would come to me as a vision, like I was right there standing over the canyon. And it kept coming back. And at the time I was with, I went to meet Kundalini, and Kundalini was an ST2 who was liberated about six months before me. And so I told her about the thing. I was like, hey, this thing keeps coming up. And she's like, no, you're facing your last samsara. And I'm like, oh, okay. And then I said, well, what do I do? She's like, jump. And I was like, what? I'm like, it's so scary. I feel like I'm going to die. She's like, you've got to face that fear, and you've got to go for enlightenment. And if that means jumping, then jump. And I was standing at the edge of the canyon, 400 foot tall, something like that, and I said, I'm going to go through with this, because I want enlightenment no matter what. And so I jumped, and as I fell there was a rush of energy, and I was like totally focused on I want enlightenment. And then I disappeared into light. And then I was standing, next thing I know I was standing on top of the cliff overlooking the canyon. And I felt the power of the canyon and it was beautiful and wonderful without fear. And I felt it was so wonderful. And the fear was gone. So after you face your last samskara, you're very close to liberation. So I want you to take a moment and set in your mind that you're going to go for enlightenment

0:22:43
no matter what.

0:22:46
If you get all the good stuff, it's not enough.

0:22:50
Enlightenment is what you need.

0:22:51
If all the bad stuff comes up, you're going to face it, you're going to go through it, you're going to let go of it, you're going to follow the Dharma, you're going to go all the way to liberation, no matter what. I want you to see that in your mind. And if you know your karma, your mind, your self, your samskaras, bring it up, face it and go through it. in this reflection, make this intention. Let's begin. Okay.

0:23:45
Okay. Very good. That is your pathway beyond the self. So the third step is a meditation practice. And this is a meditation practice that you will do each morning for at least a half an hour, and each evening for at least 15 minutes. It's not so much a matter of the time that you spend as being very, very focused. A lot of chakras get dead at it, and instead of sitting there for half an hour, they can just go, bam, gone. All right, back to it. So, meditation practice. We're going to focus on three chakras, and we're going to focus on three colors, three

0:25:18
mantras, and three symbols. So there are four dimensions of focus per chakra. So the first chakra that we focus on is the heart. And when we focus on the heart, we say the mantra AH, and we see the color blue, and we see the Tibetan AH sign in the center of the chakra. So heart, AH, blue, and the symbol. When we come to the throat chakra, on the throat, the symbol, the Tibetan symbol for Hum. So throat chakra is just on the bottom collar here. Some people go a little higher, but you know, you'll get a vibe for what you like. There's a chakra here and a chakra here. So, throat, hum, green, like Tibetan symbol for hum. Third chakra is the third eye, say the mantra, OM. See the color white. And then center of our third eye we see the Tibetan symbol for OM. So third eye, OM, white symbol. And we come back down to the heart. So we actually are going to be moving our attention from chakra to chakra to chakra. And we do it fast. We've got to get it to like this kind of speed. And this moves a lot of Kundalini. And each of these dimensions of colors are, it's not just an astral dimension blue, it's a construct of blue from the Kala Chakra. And it is thousands of dimensions. And these are, in these practices, it's our primary enlightening practices of the school, in ways of the school. So, get good at this. Because that's how you have all the powers. The powers that be. Alright, so, we're going to practice together. We're going to go through And...

0:29:53
Huh. I've got all the showdowns on this, right?

0:29:57
No.

0:29:59
Because they're gonna come in later.

0:30:01
Oh, okay.

0:30:03
Too bad.

0:30:05
Alright, so we're gonna do this for three songs.

0:30:09
And...

0:30:11
And so for all the current shodans, in these three songs, I'm going to do the initiation, but I'm also going to do the 1008 Empowerments. And I want you guys to be present and feel it. Open your second attention, and then you're going to actually be doing it with me.

0:30:49
What did you get?

0:30:51
Laughter Laughter You'll be right with you folks. Q. I have a question. That's it. This is how it is when I'm with the seven, because we'll do like a 12-hour

0:31:42
practice or something, and it's like whenever someone has to go, they just get up and go. Okay. All right, everyone. Let's begin. We're going to do the college process.

0:32:32
the The. the So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. the The. the the the the the the So, So the So. Yeah. the So, the So, the the the the the ♪♪ ♪♪ the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the ♪♪ ♪♪ ♪♪ Wonderful. And it's time for the mandala.




Transcribed with Cockatoo
