## REFLECTION v01
---
family: F1
voice_mode: teacher
mechanism_emphasis: automatic

I have been doing this work for twenty-two years. I have the track record. I have the referrals, the completed projects, the colleagues who trust me, the moments when my judgment was visibly, demonstrably right. I have what would constitute, by any external measure, competence. And yet there are still rooms I walk into where the internal mechanism fires before I have said a word: they will see. They will ask a question you cannot answer. You do not belong at this level.

The mechanism is not proportional to the evidence. This is the thing I have examined most carefully about it. It does not respond to evidence. I can remind myself of the twenty-two years and the track record and the referrals. The reminder registers intellectually. It does not move the mechanism. The mechanism is running on a different operating system, one that predates the competence by decades, one that was installed in the first years of ambition when I was genuinely uncertain, and which has never been updated by the evidence that accumulated after.

What I find most interesting now — more interesting than the shame of it — is the way the mechanism is specific to certain rooms. I do not feel it everywhere. There are contexts where I walk in without the alarm. The rooms where the alarm fires have a common quality: they are the rooms where the stakes feel highest, where the people I respect most are present, where the consequence of being seen as inadequate would carry the most weight. The mechanism has learned to reserve its activation for the moments when the vulnerability would be most costly. It is, in this sense, rational. It is also exhausting.
---
その代償は、追求しなかったことによって計測されます。求めなかった会議、志望しなかった役職、書く前に自分自身で却下したプレゼンテーションなどです。このメカニズムは保守的であり、暴露のリスクを避けるために行動しますが、二十年間にわたるその積み重ねにより、私の実際の能力よりもやや小さめのプロフェッショナルなキャリアパスとなっています。

私はこの代償をどのように計上するべきか確信が持てません。なぜなら、メカニズムがない場合に私が追求したり達成したりしたであろうことを完全には理解できないからです。しかし、特定の瞬間における証拠を見ることができます：自分が最も不適任だと確信して参加を断ったカンファレンスパネルで、より不適任な人がその場所を占めている様子。過大な約束を恐れて意図的に範囲を狭めたプロジェクト。本当の価値を要求するのが自分にはふさわしくないと感じた給与交渉での軟化した態度。

この代償はまた、管理するエネルギーでもあります。メカニズムを管理すること、収縮の衝動と戦う精神労働、必要な範囲を超えて準備をする作業（必要なだけでは足りないと感じるため）、会議後のレビューで自分が見破られた証拠を探す作業などは、働く週の有限な認知的および感情的なリソースに大きな負担をかけます。このメカニズムは恐れている暴露を生み出しませんが、その暴露を防ぐための努力は無料ではありません。
---
