## REFLECTION v01
---
family: F1
voice_mode: teacher
mechanism_emphasis: automatic

The depletion math is not complicated once I write it down, but for years I refused to do the arithmetic. Here are the simultaneous demands that were running in the year I finally stopped being able to pretend I was fine: my mother's increasing confusion and the administrative load of her care. My father's health crisis and the hospital visits and the phone calls from doctors who expected me to translate between the medical system and the family. My sixteen-year-old's mental health struggles and the daily labor of holding that space without alarming my partner or the younger children. My job, which required full presence five days a week and invisible labor most evenings. The household, which did not manage itself. The friendships I was not maintaining but not releasing, which accumulated as a background guilt. And the marriage, which needed things from me that I was not capable of providing because I was empty by the time I reached it.

The mechanism of burnout is not mysterious. It is a depletion calculation that goes negative and stays there. The inputs fell below the outputs. For long enough. The nervous system, which had been maintaining itself through adrenaline and willpower and the particular dopamine hit of being needed, could no longer sustain the override. The system began failing in small ways that I rationalized. The crying in the car before I walked into the office. The inability to make simple decisions. The flat quality that descended on the things that used to give me pleasure.

What I am examining is not why I burned out — the arithmetic is obvious — but why I could not see it while it was happening. The mechanism that drove the burnout was the same mechanism that prevented me from recognizing it. I had learned to read my own exhaustion as a signal to try harder. When the system was failing, I interpreted the failure as a performance problem rather than a supply problem. I needed to manage better, organize better, be more efficient. The idea that the problem was structural — that no one could have sustained this load — did not arrive until the system had been failing for eighteen months.
---
燃え尽き症候群の代償となったのは、本物の思いやりの感情でした。ケアの演技ではなく、その演技は自動的に行われたため、本当の思いが消えてからも長く続いたのです。しかし、目の前にいる人々に対する真の思いやりの感覚、それがなければケアは価値がないという質の高い存在感——それは最初に失われました。私は適切な反応を提供し、必要な場所に出向き、求められる言葉を口にしていました。内面は暗闇に包まれていました。

その後も続く代償は、空っぽの状態で過ごした年月の複利です。その期間中の決断は霧の中でのものでした。維持するのに私には余裕がなかったため、疎遠になった友人関係。新たな要求に対応する余力がないため、敬遠した職業機会。子供たちとの会話も反応的なもので、本当の出会いではありませんでした——私はそこにいましたし、技術的には存在していましたが、完全にはその部屋の中にいられませんでした。

最も深い代償は名付け難いものです。それは私自身の内面を訪れることができなくなったような喪失感です。燃え尽き症候群は中空にします。外からは見えないものを取り去るのではなく、自分の経験へのアクセスを奪います。私は他人が必要とするものについては言葉を尽くせました。しかし、感情について話すことはできませんでした。私と感情の間に存在する疲れが厚すぎて、それを通り抜けることが不可能になっていたからです。それが何なのかは気づいていませんでした。ただ疲れていると思っていたのです。
---
