## REFLECTION v01
---
family: F4
voice_mode: witness
mechanism_emphasis: history

What I notice first, when I pay attention, is the throat. Not soreness, exactly — a particular kind of fatigue that is different from illness. By Thursday of a full teaching week, my voice has been in use for approximately twenty-five hours. It has been projecting. It has been modulating. It has been doing the specific work of holding attention, of emphasizing, of softening to draw students in and sharpening to redirect them. The voice has been performing its professional function. By Thursday it is not sick. It is used.

This is the history that the professional identity does not usually include. Teaching is described in terms of knowledge and relationship and pedagogical skill. It is less often described in terms of the physical instrument it operates through. My body is the primary technology of my work. My voice, my posture, my movement through the room, my physical presence — these are the means by which teaching happens. And the body has been doing this, without adequate acknowledgment, for years.

The back I notice on Friday afternoons is the back of a person who has been standing on hard floors, or bending over student desks to read their work, or carrying the weight of professional alertness in the shoulders. The feet, after a full day, register the standing in a way I did not expect when I began this work. The profession asked for my intelligence and my knowledge and my interpersonal capacity. It also required my body, silently, as infrastructure.

What I have come to understand is that there is a history written in my body that is parallel to my professional history. The vocal cord nodules that I nearly developed in year six, before I learned how to use a microphone in a large classroom. The recurring tension headaches that I eventually traced to the particular quality of sustained concentration my work requires — not the effort of thinking hard but the effort of attending to thirty-two people simultaneously, which is a different kind of cognitive labor and has a different somatic signature. The body has been keeping this record. I had been, until recently, not reading it.

The history matters because healing requires knowing what happened. My body did not arrive at its current state through ordinary aging. It arrived here through the specific physical demands of twenty-three years in classrooms. The treatment that would address these demands is different from the treatment that addresses generic stress. The body held the profession. The healing needs to know that.
---
在專業對話中，身體所付出的代價是最難被看見的。我們用心理學的角度來討論教師的職業倦怠，用情感的角度來談論同理心疲勞，而工作中的智識需求、人際關係的需求和行政管理的需求也都是我們會討論的重點。但少有人提及的是，在維護專業身份的過程中，身體默默付出並持續承受著什麼。

我有一位同事在服務了三十一個年頭後退休了。她的耳鳴問題被耳鼻喉科醫生歸因於多年來暴露於教室噪音環境中至少部分原因所致。她還有雙膝問題，她以一種自嘲的精確性將其歸咎於三十年來站在薄薄的機構地毯上所覆蓋著的水泥地板上的緣故。她並沒有抱怨，而是報告了這一切發生在她的身體上，這是事實。

我想要為自己命名的代價是聲音，但從不同的角度來說。我的說話方式已經改變了，不是有意而為之，但在某個時間點，我發展出了一種特定的發聲模式——一種特殊的音量、位置和不完全呼吸的質量，這種模式對於教室管理非常有效，卻長期不足以滿足我身體所需的呼吸恢復。即使不在教書時，我也像教師一樣呼吸著。在一次瑜伽課上，老師不斷地要求我更深入地呼吸，而我總是做不到，這讓我意識到專業化的模式已經成為了我的默認模式。

這種代價只有回顧時才會顯現出來，而且只有當你去尋找它時才能發現。身體適應了工作的需求。這些適應並非中立的，它們本身也有著自己的代價。我開始理解的身心療癒不是治療病態，而是認識到並開始修正那些在教室環境下是功能性但在其他地方則限制性的適應模式。身體學會了成為教師的身體，但它還未學會如何只是做一個普通的身體。
---
